Title: Dorian Gray — Part 53

“Understand what?” he asked, angrily.

“Why I was so bad to-night. Why I shall always be bad. Why I shall
never act well again.”

He shrugged his shoulders. “You are ill, I suppose. When you are ill
you shouldn’t act. You make yourself ridiculous. My friends were bored.
I was bored.”

She seemed not to listen to him. She was transfigured with joy. An
ecstasy of happiness dominated her.

“Dorian, Dorian,” she cried, “before I knew you, acting was the one
reality of my life. It was only in the theatre that I lived. I thought
that it was all true. I was Rosalind one night and Portia the other.
The joy of Beatrice was my joy, and the sorrows of Cordelia were mine
also. I believed in everything. The common people who acted with me
seemed to me to be godlike. The painted scenes were my world. I knew
nothing but shadows, and I thought them real. You came—oh, my beautiful
love!—and you freed my soul from prison. You taught me what reality
really is. To-night, for the first time in my life, I saw through the
hollowness, the sham, the silliness of the empty pageant in which I had
always played. To-night, for the first time, I became conscious that
the Romeo was hideous, and old, and painted, that the moonlight in the
orchard was false, that the scenery was vulgar, and that the words I
had to speak were unreal, were not my words, were not what I wanted to
say. You had brought me something higher, something of which all art is
but a reflection. You had made me understand what love really is. My
love! My love! Prince Charming! Prince of life! I have grown sick of
shadows. You are more to me than all art can ever be. What have I to do
with the puppets of a play? When I came on to-night, I could not
understand how it was that everything had gone from me. I thought that
I was going to be wonderful. I found that I could do nothing. Suddenly
it dawned on my soul what it all meant. The knowledge was exquisite to
me. I heard them hissing, and I smiled. What could they know of love
such as ours? Take me away, Dorian—take me away with you, where we can
be quite alone. I hate the stage. I might mimic a passion that I do not
feel, but I cannot mimic one that burns me like fire. Oh, Dorian,
Dorian, you understand now what it signifies? Even if I could do it, it
would be profanation for me to play at being in love. You have made me
see that.”

He flung himself down on the sofa and turned away his face. “You have
killed my love,” he muttered.

She looked at him in wonder and laughed. He made no answer. She came
across to him, and with her little fingers stroked his hair. She knelt
down and pressed his hands to her lips. He drew them away, and a
shudder ran through him.