Title: Dorian Gray — Part 62

“My dear Dorian,” answered Lord Henry, taking a cigarette from his case
and producing a gold-latten matchbox, “the only way a woman can ever
reform a man is by boring him so completely that he loses all possible
interest in life. If you had married this girl, you would have been
wretched. Of course, you would have treated her kindly. One can always
be kind to people about whom one cares nothing. But she would have soon
found out that you were absolutely indifferent to her. And when a woman
finds that out about her husband, she either becomes dreadfully dowdy,
or wears very smart bonnets that some other woman’s husband has to pay
for. I say nothing about the social mistake, which would have been
abject—which, of course, I would not have allowed—but I assure you that
in any case the whole thing would have been an absolute failure.”

“I suppose it would,” muttered the lad, walking up and down the room
and looking horribly pale. “But I thought it was my duty. It is not my
fault that this terrible tragedy has prevented my doing what was right.
I remember your saying once that there is a fatality about good
resolutions—that they are always made too late. Mine certainly were.”

“Good resolutions are useless attempts to interfere with scientific
laws. Their origin is pure vanity. Their result is absolutely _nil_.
They give us, now and then, some of those luxurious sterile emotions
that have a certain charm for the weak. That is all that can be said
for them. They are simply cheques that men draw on a bank where they
have no account.”

“Harry,” cried Dorian Gray, coming over and sitting down beside him,
“why is it that I cannot feel this tragedy as much as I want to? I
don’t think I am heartless. Do you?”

“You have done too many foolish things during the last fortnight to be
entitled to give yourself that name, Dorian,” answered Lord Henry with
his sweet melancholy smile.

The lad frowned. “I don’t like that explanation, Harry,” he rejoined,
“but I am glad you don’t think I am heartless. I am nothing of the
kind. I know I am not. And yet I must admit that this thing that has
happened does not affect me as it should. It seems to me to be simply
like a wonderful ending to a wonderful play. It has all the terrible
beauty of a Greek tragedy, a tragedy in which I took a great part, but
by which I have not been wounded.”

“It is an interesting question,” said Lord Henry, who found an
exquisite pleasure in playing on the lad’s unconscious egotism, “an
extremely interesting question. I fancy that the true explanation is
this: It often happens that the real tragedies of life occur in such an
inartistic manner that they hurt us by their crude violence, their
absolute incoherence, their absurd want of meaning, their entire lack
of style. They affect us just as vulgarity affects us. They give us an
impression of sheer brute force, and we revolt against that. Sometimes,
however, a tragedy that possesses artistic elements of beauty crosses
our lives. If these elements of beauty are real, the whole thing simply
appeals to our sense of dramatic effect. Suddenly we find that we are
no longer the actors, but the spectators of the play. Or rather we are
both. We watch ourselves, and the mere wonder of the spectacle
enthralls us. In the present case, what is it that has really happened?
Some one has killed herself for love of you. I wish that I had ever had
such an experience. It would have made me in love with love for the
rest of my life. The people who have adored me—there have not been very
many, but there have been some—have always insisted on living on, long
after I had ceased to care for them, or they to care for me. They have
become stout and tedious, and when I meet them, they go in at once for
reminiscences. That awful memory of woman! What a fearful thing it is!
And what an utter intellectual stagnation it reveals! One should absorb
the colour of life, but one should never remember its details. Details
are always vulgar.”