Title: Dorian Gray — Part 109

But at dinner he could not eat anything. Plate after plate went away
untasted. Lady Narborough kept scolding him for what she called “an
insult to poor Adolphe, who invented the _menu_ specially for you,” and
now and then Lord Henry looked across at him, wondering at his silence
and abstracted manner. From time to time the butler filled his glass
with champagne. He drank eagerly, and his thirst seemed to increase.

“Dorian,” said Lord Henry at last, as the _chaud-froid_ was being
handed round, “what is the matter with you to-night? You are quite out
of sorts.”

“I believe he is in love,” cried Lady Narborough, “and that he is
afraid to tell me for fear I should be jealous. He is quite right. I
certainly should.”

“Dear Lady Narborough,” murmured Dorian, smiling, “I have not been in
love for a whole week—not, in fact, since Madame de Ferrol left town.”

“How you men can fall in love with that woman!” exclaimed the old lady.
“I really cannot understand it.”

“It is simply because she remembers you when you were a little girl,
Lady Narborough,” said Lord Henry. “She is the one link between us and
your short frocks.”

“She does not remember my short frocks at all, Lord Henry. But I
remember her very well at Vienna thirty years ago, and how _décolletée_
she was then.”

“She is still _décolletée_,” he answered, taking an olive in his long
fingers; “and when she is in a very smart gown she looks like an
_édition de luxe_ of a bad French novel. She is really wonderful, and
full of surprises. Her capacity for family affection is extraordinary.
When her third husband died, her hair turned quite gold from grief.”

“How can you, Harry!” cried Dorian.

“It is a most romantic explanation,” laughed the hostess. “But her
third husband, Lord Henry! You don’t mean to say Ferrol is the fourth?”

“Certainly, Lady Narborough.”

“I don’t believe a word of it.”

“Well, ask Mr. Gray. He is one of her most intimate friends.”

“Is it true, Mr. Gray?”

“She assures me so, Lady Narborough,” said Dorian. “I asked her
whether, like Marguerite de Navarre, she had their hearts embalmed and
hung at her girdle. She told me she didn’t, because none of them had
had any hearts at all.”

“Four husbands! Upon my word that is _trop de zêle_.”

“_Trop d’audace_, I tell her,” said Dorian.

“Oh! she is audacious enough for anything, my dear. And what is Ferrol
like? I don’t know him.”

“The husbands of very beautiful women belong to the criminal classes,”
said Lord Henry, sipping his wine.

Lady Narborough hit him with her fan. “Lord Henry, I am not at all
surprised that the world says that you are extremely wicked.”

“But what world says that?” asked Lord Henry, elevating his eyebrows.
“It can only be the next world. This world and I are on excellent
terms.”

“Everybody I know says you are very wicked,” cried the old lady,
shaking her head.