Title: Dorian Gray — Part 74

“No, no,” he cried petulantly. “Thank you, Leaf. That will do.”

She lingered for a few moments, and was garrulous over some detail of
the household. He sighed and told her to manage things as she thought
best. She left the room, wreathed in smiles.

As the door closed, Dorian put the key in his pocket and looked round
the room. His eye fell on a large, purple satin coverlet heavily
embroidered with gold, a splendid piece of late seventeenth-century
Venetian work that his grandfather had found in a convent near Bologna.
Yes, that would serve to wrap the dreadful thing in. It had perhaps
served often as a pall for the dead. Now it was to hide something that
had a corruption of its own, worse than the corruption of death
itself—something that would breed horrors and yet would never die. What
the worm was to the corpse, his sins would be to the painted image on
the canvas. They would mar its beauty and eat away its grace. They
would defile it and make it shameful. And yet the thing would still
live on. It would be always alive.

He shuddered, and for a moment he regretted that he had not told Basil
the true reason why he had wished to hide the picture away. Basil would
have helped him to resist Lord Henry’s influence, and the still more
poisonous influences that came from his own temperament. The love that
he bore him—for it was really love—had nothing in it that was not noble
and intellectual. It was not that mere physical admiration of beauty
that is born of the senses and that dies when the senses tire. It was
such love as Michelangelo had known, and Montaigne, and Winckelmann,
and Shakespeare himself. Yes, Basil could have saved him. But it was
too late now. The past could always be annihilated. Regret, denial, or
forgetfulness could do that. But the future was inevitable. There were
passions in him that would find their terrible outlet, dreams that
would make the shadow of their evil real.

He took up from the couch the great purple-and-gold texture that
covered it, and, holding it in his hands, passed behind the screen. Was
the face on the canvas viler than before? It seemed to him that it was
unchanged, and yet his loathing of it was intensified. Gold hair, blue
eyes, and rose-red lips—they all were there. It was simply the
expression that had altered. That was horrible in its cruelty. Compared
to what he saw in it of censure or rebuke, how shallow Basil’s
reproaches about Sibyl Vane had been!—how shallow, and of what little
account! His own soul was looking out at him from the canvas and
calling him to judgement. A look of pain came across him, and he flung
the rich pall over the picture. As he did so, a knock came to the door.
He passed out as his servant entered.

“The persons are here, Monsieur.”

He felt that the man must be got rid of at once. He must not be allowed
to know where the picture was being taken to. There was something sly
about him, and he had thoughtful, treacherous eyes. Sitting down at the
writing-table he scribbled a note to Lord Henry, asking him to send him
round something to read and reminding him that they were to meet at
eight-fifteen that evening.