Title: Dorian Gray — Part 132

Dorian heaved a sigh, and Lord Henry strolled across the room and began
to stroke the head of a curious Java parrot, a large, grey-plumaged
bird with pink crest and tail, that was balancing itself upon a bamboo
perch. As his pointed fingers touched it, it dropped the white scurf of
crinkled lids over black, glasslike eyes and began to sway backwards
and forwards.

“Yes,” he continued, turning round and taking his handkerchief out of
his pocket; “his painting had quite gone off. It seemed to me to have
lost something. It had lost an ideal. When you and he ceased to be
great friends, he ceased to be a great artist. What was it separated
you? I suppose he bored you. If so, he never forgave you. It’s a habit
bores have. By the way, what has become of that wonderful portrait he
did of you? I don’t think I have ever seen it since he finished it. Oh!
I remember your telling me years ago that you had sent it down to
Selby, and that it had got mislaid or stolen on the way. You never got
it back? What a pity! it was really a masterpiece. I remember I wanted
to buy it. I wish I had now. It belonged to Basil’s best period. Since
then, his work was that curious mixture of bad painting and good
intentions that always entitles a man to be called a representative
British artist. Did you advertise for it? You should.”

“I forget,” said Dorian. “I suppose I did. But I never really liked it.
I am sorry I sat for it. The memory of the thing is hateful to me. Why
do you talk of it? It used to remind me of those curious lines in some
play—Hamlet, I think—how do they run?—

“Like the painting of a sorrow,
A face without a heart.”

Yes: that is what it was like.”

Lord Henry laughed. “If a man treats life artistically, his brain is
his heart,” he answered, sinking into an arm-chair.

Dorian Gray shook his head and struck some soft chords on the piano.
“‘Like the painting of a sorrow,’” he repeated, “‘a face without a
heart.’”

The elder man lay back and looked at him with half-closed eyes. “By the
way, Dorian,” he said after a pause, “‘what does it profit a man if he
gain the whole world and lose—how does the quotation run?—his own
soul’?”

The music jarred, and Dorian Gray started and stared at his friend.
“Why do you ask me that, Harry?”

“My dear fellow,” said Lord Henry, elevating his eyebrows in surprise,
“I asked you because I thought you might be able to give me an answer.
That is all. I was going through the park last Sunday, and close by the
Marble Arch there stood a little crowd of shabby-looking people
listening to some vulgar street-preacher. As I passed by, I heard the
man yelling out that question to his audience. It struck me as being
rather dramatic. London is very rich in curious effects of that kind. A
wet Sunday, an uncouth Christian in a mackintosh, a ring of sickly
white faces under a broken roof of dripping umbrellas, and a wonderful
phrase flung into the air by shrill hysterical lips—it was really very
good in its way, quite a suggestion. I thought of telling the prophet
that art had a soul, but that man had not. I am afraid, however, he
would not have understood me.”