Title: Dorian Gray — Part 47

“Yes, Dorian, I suppose you were right,” said Hallward slowly.

“Have you seen her to-day?” asked Lord Henry.

Dorian Gray shook his head. “I left her in the forest of Arden; I shall
find her in an orchard in Verona.”

Lord Henry sipped his champagne in a meditative manner. “At what
particular point did you mention the word marriage, Dorian? And what
did she say in answer? Perhaps you forgot all about it.”

“My dear Harry, I did not treat it as a business transaction, and I did
not make any formal proposal. I told her that I loved her, and she said
she was not worthy to be my wife. Not worthy! Why, the whole world is
nothing to me compared with her.”

“Women are wonderfully practical,” murmured Lord Henry, “much more
practical than we are. In situations of that kind we often forget to
say anything about marriage, and they always remind us.”

Hallward laid his hand upon his arm. “Don’t, Harry. You have annoyed
Dorian. He is not like other men. He would never bring misery upon any
one. His nature is too fine for that.”

Lord Henry looked across the table. “Dorian is never annoyed with me,”
he answered. “I asked the question for the best reason possible, for
the only reason, indeed, that excuses one for asking any
question—simple curiosity. I have a theory that it is always the women
who propose to us, and not we who propose to the women. Except, of
course, in middle-class life. But then the middle classes are not
modern.”

Dorian Gray laughed, and tossed his head. “You are quite incorrigible,
Harry; but I don’t mind. It is impossible to be angry with you. When
you see Sibyl Vane, you will feel that the man who could wrong her
would be a beast, a beast without a heart. I cannot understand how any
one can wish to shame the thing he loves. I love Sibyl Vane. I want to
place her on a pedestal of gold and to see the world worship the woman
who is mine. What is marriage? An irrevocable vow. You mock at it for
that. Ah! don’t mock. It is an irrevocable vow that I want to take. Her
trust makes me faithful, her belief makes me good. When I am with her,
I regret all that you have taught me. I become different from what you
have known me to be. I am changed, and the mere touch of Sibyl Vane’s
hand makes me forget you and all your wrong, fascinating, poisonous,
delightful theories.”

“And those are ...?” asked Lord Henry, helping himself to some salad.

“Oh, your theories about life, your theories about love, your theories
about pleasure. All your theories, in fact, Harry.”

“Pleasure is the only thing worth having a theory about,” he answered
in his slow melodious voice. “But I am afraid I cannot claim my theory
as my own. It belongs to Nature, not to me. Pleasure is Nature’s test,
her sign of approval. When we are happy, we are always good, but when
we are good, we are not always happy.”