Title: Dorian Gray — Part 67

CHAPTER IX.

As he was sitting at breakfast next morning, Basil Hallward was shown
into the room.

“I am so glad I have found you, Dorian,” he said gravely. “I called
last night, and they told me you were at the opera. Of course, I knew
that was impossible. But I wish you had left word where you had really
gone to. I passed a dreadful evening, half afraid that one tragedy
might be followed by another. I think you might have telegraphed for me
when you heard of it first. I read of it quite by chance in a late
edition of _The Globe_ that I picked up at the club. I came here at
once and was miserable at not finding you. I can’t tell you how
heart-broken I am about the whole thing. I know what you must suffer.
But where were you? Did you go down and see the girl’s mother? For a
moment I thought of following you there. They gave the address in the
paper. Somewhere in the Euston Road, isn’t it? But I was afraid of
intruding upon a sorrow that I could not lighten. Poor woman! What a
state she must be in! And her only child, too! What did she say about
it all?”

“My dear Basil, how do I know?” murmured Dorian Gray, sipping some
pale-yellow wine from a delicate, gold-beaded bubble of Venetian glass
and looking dreadfully bored. “I was at the opera. You should have come
on there. I met Lady Gwendolen, Harry’s sister, for the first time. We
were in her box. She is perfectly charming; and Patti sang divinely.
Don’t talk about horrid subjects. If one doesn’t talk about a thing, it
has never happened. It is simply expression, as Harry says, that gives
reality to things. I may mention that she was not the woman’s only
child. There is a son, a charming fellow, I believe. But he is not on
the stage. He is a sailor, or something. And now, tell me about
yourself and what you are painting.”

“You went to the opera?” said Hallward, speaking very slowly and with a
strained touch of pain in his voice. “You went to the opera while Sibyl
Vane was lying dead in some sordid lodging? You can talk to me of other
women being charming, and of Patti singing divinely, before the girl
you loved has even the quiet of a grave to sleep in? Why, man, there
are horrors in store for that little white body of hers!”

“Stop, Basil! I won’t hear it!” cried Dorian, leaping to his feet. “You
must not tell me about things. What is done is done. What is past is
past.”

“You call yesterday the past?”

“What has the actual lapse of time got to do with it? It is only
shallow people who require years to get rid of an emotion. A man who is
master of himself can end a sorrow as easily as he can invent a
pleasure. I don’t want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use
them, to enjoy them, and to dominate them.”