Title: Dorian Gray — Part 46

“You don’t mean a single word of all that, Harry; you know you don’t.
If Dorian Gray’s life were spoiled, no one would be sorrier than
yourself. You are much better than you pretend to be.”

Lord Henry laughed. “The reason we all like to think so well of others
is that we are all afraid for ourselves. The basis of optimism is sheer
terror. We think that we are generous because we credit our neighbour
with the possession of those virtues that are likely to be a benefit to
us. We praise the banker that we may overdraw our account, and find
good qualities in the highwayman in the hope that he may spare our
pockets. I mean everything that I have said. I have the greatest
contempt for optimism. As for a spoiled life, no life is spoiled but
one whose growth is arrested. If you want to mar a nature, you have
merely to reform it. As for marriage, of course that would be silly,
but there are other and more interesting bonds between men and women. I
will certainly encourage them. They have the charm of being
fashionable. But here is Dorian himself. He will tell you more than I
can.”

“My dear Harry, my dear Basil, you must both congratulate me!” said the
lad, throwing off his evening cape with its satin-lined wings and
shaking each of his friends by the hand in turn. “I have never been so
happy. Of course, it is sudden—all really delightful things are. And
yet it seems to me to be the one thing I have been looking for all my
life.” He was flushed with excitement and pleasure, and looked
extraordinarily handsome.

“I hope you will always be very happy, Dorian,” said Hallward, “but I
don’t quite forgive you for not having let me know of your engagement.
You let Harry know.”

“And I don’t forgive you for being late for dinner,” broke in Lord
Henry, putting his hand on the lad’s shoulder and smiling as he spoke.
“Come, let us sit down and try what the new _chef_ here is like, and
then you will tell us how it all came about.”

“There is really not much to tell,” cried Dorian as they took their
seats at the small round table. “What happened was simply this. After I
left you yesterday evening, Harry, I dressed, had some dinner at that
little Italian restaurant in Rupert Street you introduced me to, and
went down at eight o’clock to the theatre. Sibyl was playing Rosalind.
Of course, the scenery was dreadful and the Orlando absurd. But Sibyl!
You should have seen her! When she came on in her boy’s clothes, she
was perfectly wonderful. She wore a moss-coloured velvet jerkin with
cinnamon sleeves, slim, brown, cross-gartered hose, a dainty little
green cap with a hawk’s feather caught in a jewel, and a hooded cloak
lined with dull red. She had never seemed to me more exquisite. She had
all the delicate grace of that Tanagra figurine that you have in your
studio, Basil. Her hair clustered round her face like dark leaves round
a pale rose. As for her acting—well, you shall see her to-night. She is
simply a born artist. I sat in the dingy box absolutely enthralled. I
forgot that I was in London and in the nineteenth century. I was away
with my love in a forest that no man had ever seen. After the
performance was over, I went behind and spoke to her. As we were
sitting together, suddenly there came into her eyes a look that I had
never seen there before. My lips moved towards hers. We kissed each
other. I can’t describe to you what I felt at that moment. It seemed to
me that all my life had been narrowed to one perfect point of
rose-coloured joy. She trembled all over and shook like a white
narcissus. Then she flung herself on her knees and kissed my hands. I
feel that I should not tell you all this, but I can’t help it. Of
course, our engagement is a dead secret. She has not even told her own
mother. I don’t know what my guardians will say. Lord Radley is sure to
be furious. I don’t care. I shall be of age in less than a year, and
then I can do what I like. I have been right, Basil, haven’t I, to take
my love out of poetry and to find my wife in Shakespeare’s plays? Lips
that Shakespeare taught to speak have whispered their secret in my ear.
I have had the arms of Rosalind around me, and kissed Juliet on the
mouth.”