Title: Dorian Gray — Part 79

Cloudless, and pierced by one solitary star, a copper-green sky gleamed
through the windows. He read on by its wan light till he could read no
more. Then, after his valet had reminded him several times of the
lateness of the hour, he got up, and going into the next room, placed
the book on the little Florentine table that always stood at his
bedside and began to dress for dinner.

It was almost nine o’clock before he reached the club, where he found
Lord Henry sitting alone, in the morning-room, looking very much bored.

“I am so sorry, Harry,” he cried, “but really it is entirely your
fault. That book you sent me so fascinated me that I forgot how the
time was going.”

“Yes, I thought you would like it,” replied his host, rising from his
chair.

“I didn’t say I liked it, Harry. I said it fascinated me. There is a
great difference.”

“Ah, you have discovered that?” murmured Lord Henry. And they passed
into the dining-room.

CHAPTER XI.

For years, Dorian Gray could not free himself from the influence of
this book. Or perhaps it would be more accurate to say that he never
sought to free himself from it. He procured from Paris no less than
nine large-paper copies of the first edition, and had them bound in
different colours, so that they might suit his various moods and the
changing fancies of a nature over which he seemed, at times, to have
almost entirely lost control. The hero, the wonderful young Parisian in
whom the romantic and the scientific temperaments were so strangely
blended, became to him a kind of prefiguring type of himself. And,
indeed, the whole book seemed to him to contain the story of his own
life, written before he had lived it.

In one point he was more fortunate than the novel’s fantastic hero. He
never knew—never, indeed, had any cause to know—that somewhat grotesque
dread of mirrors, and polished metal surfaces, and still water which
came upon the young Parisian so early in his life, and was occasioned
by the sudden decay of a beau that had once, apparently, been so
remarkable. It was with an almost cruel joy—and perhaps in nearly every
joy, as certainly in every pleasure, cruelty has its place—that he used
to read the latter part of the book, with its really tragic, if
somewhat overemphasized, account of the sorrow and despair of one who
had himself lost what in others, and the world, he had most dearly
valued.

For the wonderful beauty that had so fascinated Basil Hallward, and
many others besides him, seemed never to leave him. Even those who had
heard the most evil things against him—and from time to time strange
rumours about his mode of life crept through London and became the
chatter of the clubs—could not believe anything to his dishonour when
they saw him. He had always the look of one who had kept himself
unspotted from the world. Men who talked grossly became silent when
Dorian Gray entered the room. There was something in the purity of his
face that rebuked them. His mere presence seemed to recall to them the
memory of the innocence that they had tarnished. They wondered how one
so charming and graceful as he was could have escaped the stain of an
age that was at once sordid and sensual.