Title: Dorian Gray — Part 92

Dorian looked at him and smiled. “What a way for a fashionable painter
to travel! A Gladstone bag and an ulster! Come in, or the fog will get
into the house. And mind you don’t talk about anything serious. Nothing
is serious nowadays. At least nothing should be.”

Hallward shook his head, as he entered, and followed Dorian into the
library. There was a bright wood fire blazing in the large open hearth.
The lamps were lit, and an open Dutch silver spirit-case stood, with
some siphons of soda-water and large cut-glass tumblers, on a little
marqueterie table.

“You see your servant made me quite at home, Dorian. He gave me
everything I wanted, including your best gold-tipped cigarettes. He is
a most hospitable creature. I like him much better than the Frenchman
you used to have. What has become of the Frenchman, by the bye?”

Dorian shrugged his shoulders. “I believe he married Lady Radley’s
maid, and has established her in Paris as an English dressmaker.
_Anglomanie_ is very fashionable over there now, I hear. It seems silly
of the French, doesn’t it? But—do you know?—he was not at all a bad
servant. I never liked him, but I had nothing to complain about. One
often imagines things that are quite absurd. He was really very devoted
to me and seemed quite sorry when he went away. Have another
brandy-and-soda? Or would you like hock-and-seltzer? I always take
hock-and-seltzer myself. There is sure to be some in the next room.”

“Thanks, I won’t have anything more,” said the painter, taking his cap
and coat off and throwing them on the bag that he had placed in the
corner. “And now, my dear fellow, I want to speak to you seriously.
Don’t frown like that. You make it so much more difficult for me.”

“What is it all about?” cried Dorian in his petulant way, flinging
himself down on the sofa. “I hope it is not about myself. I am tired of
myself to-night. I should like to be somebody else.”

“It is about yourself,” answered Hallward in his grave deep voice, “and
I must say it to you. I shall only keep you half an hour.”

Dorian sighed and lit a cigarette. “Half an hour!” he murmured.

“It is not much to ask of you, Dorian, and it is entirely for your own
sake that I am speaking. I think it right that you should know that the
most dreadful things are being said against you in London.”

“I don’t wish to know anything about them. I love scandals about other
people, but scandals about myself don’t interest me. They have not got
the charm of novelty.”

“They must interest you, Dorian. Every gentleman is interested in his
good name. You don’t want people to talk of you as something vile and
degraded. Of course, you have your position, and your wealth, and all
that kind of thing. But position and wealth are not everything. Mind
you, I don’t believe these rumours at all. At least, I can’t believe
them when I see you. Sin is a thing that writes itself across a man’s
face. It cannot be concealed. People talk sometimes of secret vices.
There are no such things. If a wretched man has a vice, it shows itself
in the lines of his mouth, the droop of his eyelids, the moulding of
his hands even. Somebody—I won’t mention his name, but you know
him—came to me last year to have his portrait done. I had never seen
him before, and had never heard anything about him at the time, though
I have heard a good deal since. He offered an extravagant price. I
refused him. There was something in the shape of his fingers that I
hated. I know now that I was quite right in what I fancied about him.
His life is dreadful. But you, Dorian, with your pure, bright, innocent
face, and your marvellous untroubled youth—I can’t believe anything
against you. And yet I see you very seldom, and you never come down to
the studio now, and when I am away from you, and I hear all these
hideous things that people are whispering about you, I don’t know what
to say. Why is it, Dorian, that a man like the Duke of Berwick leaves
the room of a club when you enter it? Why is it that so many gentlemen
in London will neither go to your house or invite you to theirs? You
used to be a friend of Lord Staveley. I met him at dinner last week.
Your name happened to come up in conversation, in connection with the
miniatures you have lent to the exhibition at the Dudley. Staveley
curled his lip and said that you might have the most artistic tastes,
but that you were a man whom no pure-minded girl should be allowed to
know, and whom no chaste woman should sit in the same room with. I
reminded him that I was a friend of yours, and asked him what he meant.
He told me. He told me right out before everybody. It was horrible! Why
is your friendship so fatal to young men? There was that wretched boy
in the Guards who committed suicide. You were his great friend. There
was Sir Henry Ashton, who had to leave England with a tarnished name.
You and he were inseparable. What about Adrian Singleton and his
dreadful end? What about Lord Kent’s only son and his career? I met his
father yesterday in St. James’s Street. He seemed broken with shame and
sorrow. What about the young Duke of Perth? What sort of life has he
got now? What gentleman would associate with him?”