Title: Dorian Gray — Part 93

“Stop, Basil. You are talking about things of which you know nothing,”
said Dorian Gray, biting his lip, and with a note of infinite contempt
in his voice. “You ask me why Berwick leaves a room when I enter it. It
is because I know everything about his life, not because he knows
anything about mine. With such blood as he has in his veins, how could
his record be clean? You ask me about Henry Ashton and young Perth. Did
I teach the one his vices, and the other his debauchery? If Kent’s
silly son takes his wife from the streets, what is that to me? If
Adrian Singleton writes his friend’s name across a bill, am I his
keeper? I know how people chatter in England. The middle classes air
their moral prejudices over their gross dinner-tables, and whisper
about what they call the profligacies of their betters in order to try
and pretend that they are in smart society and on intimate terms with
the people they slander. In this country, it is enough for a man to
have distinction and brains for every common tongue to wag against him.
And what sort of lives do these people, who pose as being moral, lead
themselves? My dear fellow, you forget that we are in the native land
of the hypocrite.”

“Dorian,” cried Hallward, “that is not the question. England is bad
enough I know, and English society is all wrong. That is the reason why
I want you to be fine. You have not been fine. One has a right to judge
of a man by the effect he has over his friends. Yours seem to lose all
sense of honour, of goodness, of purity. You have filled them with a
madness for pleasure. They have gone down into the depths. You led them
there. Yes: you led them there, and yet you can smile, as you are
smiling now. And there is worse behind. I know you and Harry are
inseparable. Surely for that reason, if for none other, you should not
have made his sister’s name a by-word.”

“Take care, Basil. You go too far.”

“I must speak, and you must listen. You shall listen. When you met Lady
Gwendolen, not a breath of scandal had ever touched her. Is there a
single decent woman in London now who would drive with her in the park?
Why, even her children are not allowed to live with her. Then there are
other stories—stories that you have been seen creeping at dawn out of
dreadful houses and slinking in disguise into the foulest dens in
London. Are they true? Can they be true? When I first heard them, I
laughed. I hear them now, and they make me shudder. What about your
country-house and the life that is led there? Dorian, you don’t know
what is said about you. I won’t tell you that I don’t want to preach to
you. I remember Harry saying once that every man who turned himself
into an amateur curate for the moment always began by saying that, and
then proceeded to break his word. I do want to preach to you. I want
you to lead such a life as will make the world respect you. I want you
to have a clean name and a fair record. I want you to get rid of the
dreadful people you associate with. Don’t shrug your shoulders like
that. Don’t be so indifferent. You have a wonderful influence. Let it
be for good, not for evil. They say that you corrupt every one with
whom you become intimate, and that it is quite sufficient for you to
enter a house for shame of some kind to follow after. I don’t know
whether it is so or not. How should I know? But it is said of you. I am
told things that it seems impossible to doubt. Lord Gloucester was one
of my greatest friends at Oxford. He showed me a letter that his wife
had written to him when she was dying alone in her villa at Mentone.
Your name was implicated in the most terrible confession I ever read. I
told him that it was absurd—that I knew you thoroughly, and that you
were incapable of anything of the kind. Know you? I wonder do I know
you? Before I could answer that, I should have to see your soul.”