Title: Dorian Gray — Part 21

“He is very good-looking,” assented Lord Henry.

“I hope he will fall into proper hands,” continued the old man. “He
should have a pot of money waiting for him if Kelso did the right thing
by him. His mother had money, too. All the Selby property came to her,
through her grandfather. Her grandfather hated Kelso, thought him a
mean dog. He was, too. Came to Madrid once when I was there. Egad, I
was ashamed of him. The Queen used to ask me about the English noble
who was always quarrelling with the cabmen about their fares. They made
quite a story of it. I didn’t dare show my face at Court for a month. I
hope he treated his grandson better than he did the jarvies.”

“I don’t know,” answered Lord Henry. “I fancy that the boy will be well
off. He is not of age yet. He has Selby, I know. He told me so. And ...
his mother was very beautiful?”

“Margaret Devereux was one of the loveliest creatures I ever saw,
Harry. What on earth induced her to behave as she did, I never could
understand. She could have married anybody she chose. Carlington was
mad after her. She was romantic, though. All the women of that family
were. The men were a poor lot, but, egad! the women were wonderful.
Carlington went on his knees to her. Told me so himself. She laughed at
him, and there wasn’t a girl in London at the time who wasn’t after
him. And by the way, Harry, talking about silly marriages, what is this
humbug your father tells me about Dartmoor wanting to marry an
American? Ain’t English girls good enough for him?”

“It is rather fashionable to marry Americans just now, Uncle George.”

“I’ll back English women against the world, Harry,” said Lord Fermor,
striking the table with his fist.

“The betting is on the Americans.”

“They don’t last, I am told,” muttered his uncle.

“A long engagement exhausts them, but they are capital at a
steeplechase. They take things flying. I don’t think Dartmoor has a
chance.”

“Who are her people?” grumbled the old gentleman. “Has she got any?”

Lord Henry shook his head. “American girls are as clever at concealing
their parents, as English women are at concealing their past,” he said,
rising to go.

“They are pork-packers, I suppose?”

“I hope so, Uncle George, for Dartmoor’s sake. I am told that
pork-packing is the most lucrative profession in America, after
politics.”

“Is she pretty?”

“She behaves as if she was beautiful. Most American women do. It is the
secret of their charm.”

“Why can’t these American women stay in their own country? They are
always telling us that it is the paradise for women.”

“It is. That is the reason why, like Eve, they are so excessively
anxious to get out of it,” said Lord Henry. “Good-bye, Uncle George. I
shall be late for lunch, if I stop any longer. Thanks for giving me the
information I wanted. I always like to know everything about my new
friends, and nothing about my old ones.”