Title: Dorian Gray — Part 129

“Where were you yesterday?”

“In the country, Harry. I was staying at a little inn by myself.”

“My dear boy,” said Lord Henry, smiling, “anybody can be good in the
country. There are no temptations there. That is the reason why people
who live out of town are so absolutely uncivilized. Civilization is not
by any means an easy thing to attain to. There are only two ways by
which man can reach it. One is by being cultured, the other by being
corrupt. Country people have no opportunity of being either, so they
stagnate.”

“Culture and corruption,” echoed Dorian. “I have known something of
both. It seems terrible to me now that they should ever be found
together. For I have a new ideal, Harry. I am going to alter. I think I
have altered.”

“You have not yet told me what your good action was. Or did you say you
had done more than one?” asked his companion as he spilled into his
plate a little crimson pyramid of seeded strawberries and, through a
perforated, shell-shaped spoon, snowed white sugar upon them.

“I can tell you, Harry. It is not a story I could tell to any one else.
I spared somebody. It sounds vain, but you understand what I mean. She
was quite beautiful and wonderfully like Sibyl Vane. I think it was
that which first attracted me to her. You remember Sibyl, don’t you?
How long ago that seems! Well, Hetty was not one of our own class, of
course. She was simply a girl in a village. But I really loved her. I
am quite sure that I loved her. All during this wonderful May that we
have been having, I used to run down and see her two or three times a
week. Yesterday she met me in a little orchard. The apple-blossoms kept
tumbling down on her hair, and she was laughing. We were to have gone
away together this morning at dawn. Suddenly I determined to leave her
as flowerlike as I had found her.”

“I should think the novelty of the emotion must have given you a thrill
of real pleasure, Dorian,” interrupted Lord Henry. “But I can finish
your idyll for you. You gave her good advice and broke her heart. That
was the beginning of your reformation.”

“Harry, you are horrible! You mustn’t say these dreadful things.
Hetty’s heart is not broken. Of course, she cried and all that. But
there is no disgrace upon her. She can live, like Perdita, in her
garden of mint and marigold.”

“And weep over a faithless Florizel,” said Lord Henry, laughing, as he
leaned back in his chair. “My dear Dorian, you have the most curiously
boyish moods. Do you think this girl will ever be really content now
with any one of her own rank? I suppose she will be married some day to
a rough carter or a grinning ploughman. Well, the fact of having met
you, and loved you, will teach her to despise her husband, and she will
be wretched. From a moral point of view, I cannot say that I think much
of your great renunciation. Even as a beginning, it is poor. Besides,
how do you know that Hetty isn’t floating at the present moment in some
starlit mill-pond, with lovely water-lilies round her, like Ophelia?”