Title: Dorian Gray — Part 61

A cry of pain broke from the lad’s lips, and he leaped to his feet,
tearing his hands away from Lord Henry’s grasp. “Dead! Sibyl dead! It
is not true! It is a horrible lie! How dare you say it?”

“It is quite true, Dorian,” said Lord Henry, gravely. “It is in all the
morning papers. I wrote down to you to ask you not to see any one till
I came. There will have to be an inquest, of course, and you must not
be mixed up in it. Things like that make a man fashionable in Paris.
But in London people are so prejudiced. Here, one should never make
one’s _début_ with a scandal. One should reserve that to give an
interest to one’s old age. I suppose they don’t know your name at the
theatre? If they don’t, it is all right. Did any one see you going
round to her room? That is an important point.”

Dorian did not answer for a few moments. He was dazed with horror.
Finally he stammered, in a stifled voice, “Harry, did you say an
inquest? What did you mean by that? Did Sibyl—? Oh, Harry, I can’t bear
it! But be quick. Tell me everything at once.”

“I have no doubt it was not an accident, Dorian, though it must be put
in that way to the public. It seems that as she was leaving the theatre
with her mother, about half-past twelve or so, she said she had
forgotten something upstairs. They waited some time for her, but she
did not come down again. They ultimately found her lying dead on the
floor of her dressing-room. She had swallowed something by mistake,
some dreadful thing they use at theatres. I don’t know what it was, but
it had either prussic acid or white lead in it. I should fancy it was
prussic acid, as she seems to have died instantaneously.”

“Harry, Harry, it is terrible!” cried the lad.

“Yes; it is very tragic, of course, but you must not get yourself mixed
up in it. I see by _The Standard_ that she was seventeen. I should have
thought she was almost younger than that. She looked such a child, and
seemed to know so little about acting. Dorian, you mustn’t let this
thing get on your nerves. You must come and dine with me, and
afterwards we will look in at the opera. It is a Patti night, and
everybody will be there. You can come to my sister’s box. She has got
some smart women with her.”

“So I have murdered Sibyl Vane,” said Dorian Gray, half to himself,
“murdered her as surely as if I had cut her little throat with a knife.
Yet the roses are not less lovely for all that. The birds sing just as
happily in my garden. And to-night I am to dine with you, and then go
on to the opera, and sup somewhere, I suppose, afterwards. How
extraordinarily dramatic life is! If I had read all this in a book,
Harry, I think I would have wept over it. Somehow, now that it has
happened actually, and to me, it seems far too wonderful for tears.
Here is the first passionate love-letter I have ever written in my
life. Strange, that my first passionate love-letter should have been
addressed to a dead girl. Can they feel, I wonder, those white silent
people we call the dead? Sibyl! Can she feel, or know, or listen? Oh,
Harry, how I loved her once! It seems years ago to me now. She was
everything to me. Then came that dreadful night—was it really only last
night?—when she played so badly, and my heart almost broke. She
explained it all to me. It was terribly pathetic. But I was not moved a
bit. I thought her shallow. Suddenly something happened that made me
afraid. I can’t tell you what it was, but it was terrible. I said I
would go back to her. I felt I had done wrong. And now she is dead. My
God! My God! Harry, what shall I do? You don’t know the danger I am in,
and there is nothing to keep me straight. She would have done that for
me. She had no right to kill herself. It was selfish of her.”