Title: Dorian Gray — Part 68

“Dorian, this is horrible! Something has changed you completely. You
look exactly the same wonderful boy who, day after day, used to come
down to my studio to sit for his picture. But you were simple, natural,
and affectionate then. You were the most unspoiled creature in the
whole world. Now, I don’t know what has come over you. You talk as if
you had no heart, no pity in you. It is all Harry’s influence. I see
that.”

The lad flushed up and, going to the window, looked out for a few
moments on the green, flickering, sun-lashed garden. “I owe a great
deal to Harry, Basil,” he said at last, “more than I owe to you. You
only taught me to be vain.”

“Well, I am punished for that, Dorian—or shall be some day.”

“I don’t know what you mean, Basil,” he exclaimed, turning round. “I
don’t know what you want. What do you want?”

“I want the Dorian Gray I used to paint,” said the artist sadly.

“Basil,” said the lad, going over to him and putting his hand on his
shoulder, “you have come too late. Yesterday, when I heard that Sibyl
Vane had killed herself—”

“Killed herself! Good heavens! is there no doubt about that?” cried
Hallward, looking up at him with an expression of horror.

“My dear Basil! Surely you don’t think it was a vulgar accident? Of
course she killed herself.”

The elder man buried his face in his hands. “How fearful,” he muttered,
and a shudder ran through him.

“No,” said Dorian Gray, “there is nothing fearful about it. It is one
of the great romantic tragedies of the age. As a rule, people who act
lead the most commonplace lives. They are good husbands, or faithful
wives, or something tedious. You know what I mean—middle-class virtue
and all that kind of thing. How different Sibyl was! She lived her
finest tragedy. She was always a heroine. The last night she played—the
night you saw her—she acted badly because she had known the reality of
love. When she knew its unreality, she died, as Juliet might have died.
She passed again into the sphere of art. There is something of the
martyr about her. Her death has all the pathetic uselessness of
martyrdom, all its wasted beauty. But, as I was saying, you must not
think I have not suffered. If you had come in yesterday at a particular
moment—about half-past five, perhaps, or a quarter to six—you would
have found me in tears. Even Harry, who was here, who brought me the
news, in fact, had no idea what I was going through. I suffered
immensely. Then it passed away. I cannot repeat an emotion. No one can,
except sentimentalists. And you are awfully unjust, Basil. You come
down here to console me. That is charming of you. You find me consoled,
and you are furious. How like a sympathetic person! You remind me of a
story Harry told me about a certain philanthropist who spent twenty
years of his life in trying to get some grievance redressed, or some
unjust law altered—I forget exactly what it was. Finally he succeeded,
and nothing could exceed his disappointment. He had absolutely nothing
to do, almost died of _ennui_, and became a confirmed misanthrope. And
besides, my dear old Basil, if you really want to console me, teach me
rather to forget what has happened, or to see it from a proper artistic
point of view. Was it not Gautier who used to write about _la
consolation des arts_? I remember picking up a little vellum-covered
book in your studio one day and chancing on that delightful phrase.
Well, I am not like that young man you told me of when we were down at
Marlow together, the young man who used to say that yellow satin could
console one for all the miseries of life. I love beautiful things that
one can touch and handle. Old brocades, green bronzes, lacquer-work,
carved ivories, exquisite surroundings, luxury, pomp—there is much to
be got from all these. But the artistic temperament that they create,
or at any rate reveal, is still more to me. To become the spectator of
one’s own life, as Harry says, is to escape the suffering of life. I
know you are surprised at my talking to you like this. You have not
realized how I have developed. I was a schoolboy when you knew me. I am
a man now. I have new passions, new thoughts, new ideas. I am
different, but you must not like me less. I am changed, but you must
always be my friend. Of course, I am very fond of Harry. But I know
that you are better than he is. You are not stronger—you are too much
afraid of life—but you are better. And how happy we used to be
together! Don’t leave me, Basil, and don’t quarrel with me. I am what I
am. There is nothing more to be said.”