Title: Dorian Gray — Part 103

“Stop, Gray. I don’t want to know anything further. Whether what you
have told me is true or not true doesn’t concern me. I entirely decline
to be mixed up in your life. Keep your horrible secrets to yourself.
They don’t interest me any more.”

“Alan, they will have to interest you. This one will have to interest
you. I am awfully sorry for you, Alan. But I can’t help myself. You are
the one man who is able to save me. I am forced to bring you into the
matter. I have no option. Alan, you are scientific. You know about
chemistry and things of that kind. You have made experiments. What you
have got to do is to destroy the thing that is upstairs—to destroy it
so that not a vestige of it will be left. Nobody saw this person come
into the house. Indeed, at the present moment he is supposed to be in
Paris. He will not be missed for months. When he is missed, there must
be no trace of him found here. You, Alan, you must change him, and
everything that belongs to him, into a handful of ashes that I may
scatter in the air.”

“You are mad, Dorian.”

“Ah! I was waiting for you to call me Dorian.”

“You are mad, I tell you—mad to imagine that I would raise a finger to
help you, mad to make this monstrous confession. I will have nothing to
do with this matter, whatever it is. Do you think I am going to peril
my reputation for you? What is it to me what devil’s work you are up
to?”

“It was suicide, Alan.”

“I am glad of that. But who drove him to it? You, I should fancy.”

“Do you still refuse to do this for me?”

“Of course I refuse. I will have absolutely nothing to do with it. I
don’t care what shame comes on you. You deserve it all. I should not be
sorry to see you disgraced, publicly disgraced. How dare you ask me, of
all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror? I should have
thought you knew more about people’s characters. Your friend Lord Henry
Wotton can’t have taught you much about psychology, whatever else he
has taught you. Nothing will induce me to stir a step to help you. You
have come to the wrong man. Go to some of your friends. Don’t come to
me.”

“Alan, it was murder. I killed him. You don’t know what he had made me
suffer. Whatever my life is, he had more to do with the making or the
marring of it than poor Harry has had. He may not have intended it, the
result was the same.”

“Murder! Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to? I shall not
inform upon you. It is not my business. Besides, without my stirring in
the matter, you are certain to be arrested. Nobody ever commits a crime
without doing something stupid. But I will have nothing to do with it.”