Title: Dorian Gray — Part 69

The painter felt strangely moved. The lad was infinitely dear to him,
and his personality had been the great turning point in his art. He
could not bear the idea of reproaching him any more. After all, his
indifference was probably merely a mood that would pass away. There was
so much in him that was good, so much in him that was noble.

“Well, Dorian,” he said at length, with a sad smile, “I won’t speak to
you again about this horrible thing, after to-day. I only trust your
name won’t be mentioned in connection with it. The inquest is to take
place this afternoon. Have they summoned you?”

Dorian shook his head, and a look of annoyance passed over his face at
the mention of the word “inquest.” There was something so crude and
vulgar about everything of the kind. “They don’t know my name,” he
answered.

“But surely she did?”

“Only my Christian name, and that I am quite sure she never mentioned
to any one. She told me once that they were all rather curious to learn
who I was, and that she invariably told them my name was Prince
Charming. It was pretty of her. You must do me a drawing of Sibyl,
Basil. I should like to have something more of her than the memory of a
few kisses and some broken pathetic words.”

“I will try and do something, Dorian, if it would please you. But you
must come and sit to me yourself again. I can’t get on without you.”

“I can never sit to you again, Basil. It is impossible!” he exclaimed,
starting back.

The painter stared at him. “My dear boy, what nonsense!” he cried. “Do
you mean to say you don’t like what I did of you? Where is it? Why have
you pulled the screen in front of it? Let me look at it. It is the best
thing I have ever done. Do take the screen away, Dorian. It is simply
disgraceful of your servant hiding my work like that. I felt the room
looked different as I came in.”

“My servant has nothing to do with it, Basil. You don’t imagine I let
him arrange my room for me? He settles my flowers for me sometimes—that
is all. No; I did it myself. The light was too strong on the portrait.”

“Too strong! Surely not, my dear fellow? It is an admirable place for
it. Let me see it.” And Hallward walked towards the corner of the room.

A cry of terror broke from Dorian Gray’s lips, and he rushed between
the painter and the screen. “Basil,” he said, looking very pale, “you
must not look at it. I don’t wish you to.”

“Not look at my own work! You are not serious. Why shouldn’t I look at
it?” exclaimed Hallward, laughing.

“If you try to look at it, Basil, on my word of honour I will never
speak to you again as long as I live. I am quite serious. I don’t offer
any explanation, and you are not to ask for any. But, remember, if you
touch this screen, everything is over between us.”