Title: Dorian Gray — Part 54

Then he leaped up and went to the door. “Yes,” he cried, “you have
killed my love. You used to stir my imagination. Now you don’t even
stir my curiosity. You simply produce no effect. I loved you because
you were marvellous, because you had genius and intellect, because you
realized the dreams of great poets and gave shape and substance to the
shadows of art. You have thrown it all away. You are shallow and
stupid. My God! how mad I was to love you! What a fool I have been! You
are nothing to me now. I will never see you again. I will never think
of you. I will never mention your name. You don’t know what you were to
me, once. Why, once ... Oh, I can’t bear to think of it! I wish I had
never laid eyes upon you! You have spoiled the romance of my life. How
little you can know of love, if you say it mars your art! Without your
art, you are nothing. I would have made you famous, splendid,
magnificent. The world would have worshipped you, and you would have
borne my name. What are you now? A third-rate actress with a pretty
face.”

The girl grew white, and trembled. She clenched her hands together, and
her voice seemed to catch in her throat. “You are not serious, Dorian?”
she murmured. “You are acting.”

“Acting! I leave that to you. You do it so well,” he answered bitterly.

She rose from her knees and, with a piteous expression of pain in her
face, came across the room to him. She put her hand upon his arm and
looked into his eyes. He thrust her back. “Don’t touch me!” he cried.

A low moan broke from her, and she flung herself at his feet and lay
there like a trampled flower. “Dorian, Dorian, don’t leave me!” she
whispered. “I am so sorry I didn’t act well. I was thinking of you all
the time. But I will try—indeed, I will try. It came so suddenly across
me, my love for you. I think I should never have known it if you had
not kissed me—if we had not kissed each other. Kiss me again, my love.
Don’t go away from me. I couldn’t bear it. Oh! don’t go away from me.
My brother ... No; never mind. He didn’t mean it. He was in jest....
But you, oh! can’t you forgive me for to-night? I will work so hard and
try to improve. Don’t be cruel to me, because I love you better than
anything in the world. After all, it is only once that I have not
pleased you. But you are quite right, Dorian. I should have shown
myself more of an artist. It was foolish of me, and yet I couldn’t help
it. Oh, don’t leave me, don’t leave me.” A fit of passionate sobbing
choked her. She crouched on the floor like a wounded thing, and Dorian
Gray, with his beautiful eyes, looked down at her, and his chiselled
lips curled in exquisite disdain. There is always something ridiculous
about the emotions of people whom one has ceased to love. Sibyl Vane
seemed to him to be absurdly melodramatic. Her tears and sobs annoyed
him.