Title: Dorian Gray — Part 133

“Don’t, Harry. The soul is a terrible reality. It can be bought, and
sold, and bartered away. It can be poisoned, or made perfect. There is
a soul in each one of us. I know it.”

“Do you feel quite sure of that, Dorian?”

“Quite sure.”

“Ah! then it must be an illusion. The things one feels absolutely
certain about are never true. That is the fatality of faith, and the
lesson of romance. How grave you are! Don’t be so serious. What have
you or I to do with the superstitions of our age? No: we have given up
our belief in the soul. Play me something. Play me a nocturne, Dorian,
and, as you play, tell me, in a low voice, how you have kept your
youth. You must have some secret. I am only ten years older than you
are, and I am wrinkled, and worn, and yellow. You are really wonderful,
Dorian. You have never looked more charming than you do to-night. You
remind me of the day I saw you first. You were rather cheeky, very shy,
and absolutely extraordinary. You have changed, of course, but not in
appearance. I wish you would tell me your secret. To get back my youth
I would do anything in the world, except take exercise, get up early,
or be respectable. Youth! There is nothing like it. It’s absurd to talk
of the ignorance of youth. The only people to whose opinions I listen
now with any respect are people much younger than myself. They seem in
front of me. Life has revealed to them her latest wonder. As for the
aged, I always contradict the aged. I do it on principle. If you ask
them their opinion on something that happened yesterday, they solemnly
give you the opinions current in 1820, when people wore high stocks,
believed in everything, and knew absolutely nothing. How lovely that
thing you are playing is! I wonder, did Chopin write it at Majorca,
with the sea weeping round the villa and the salt spray dashing against
the panes? It is marvellously romantic. What a blessing it is that
there is one art left to us that is not imitative! Don’t stop. I want
music to-night. It seems to me that you are the young Apollo and that I
am Marsyas listening to you. I have sorrows, Dorian, of my own, that
even you know nothing of. The tragedy of old age is not that one is
old, but that one is young. I am amazed sometimes at my own sincerity.
Ah, Dorian, how happy you are! What an exquisite life you have had! You
have drunk deeply of everything. You have crushed the grapes against
your palate. Nothing has been hidden from you. And it has all been to
you no more than the sound of music. It has not marred you. You are
still the same.”

“I am not the same, Harry.”

“Yes, you are the same. I wonder what the rest of your life will be.
Don’t spoil it by renunciations. At present you are a perfect type.
Don’t make yourself incomplete. You are quite flawless now. You need
not shake your head: you know you are. Besides, Dorian, don’t deceive
yourself. Life is not governed by will or intention. Life is a question
of nerves, and fibres, and slowly built-up cells in which thought hides
itself and passion has its dreams. You may fancy yourself safe and
think yourself strong. But a chance tone of colour in a room or a
morning sky, a particular perfume that you had once loved and that
brings subtle memories with it, a line from a forgotten poem that you
had come across again, a cadence from a piece of music that you had
ceased to play—I tell you, Dorian, that it is on things like these that
our lives depend. Browning writes about that somewhere; but our own
senses will imagine them for us. There are moments when the odour of
_lilas blanc_ passes suddenly across me, and I have to live the
strangest month of my life over again. I wish I could change places
with you, Dorian. The world has cried out against us both, but it has
always worshipped you. It always will worship you. You are the type of
what the age is searching for, and what it is afraid it has found. I am
so glad that you have never done anything, never carved a statue, or
painted a picture, or produced anything outside of yourself! Life has
been your art. You have set yourself to music. Your days are your
sonnets.”