Title: Dorian Gray — Part 101

Les dômes, sur l’azur des ondes
    Suivant la phrase au pur contour,
S’enflent comme des gorges rondes
    Que soulève un soupir d’amour.

L’esquif aborde et me dépose,
    Jetant son amarre au pilier,
Devant une façade rose,
    Sur le marbre d’un escalier.

How exquisite they were! As one read them, one seemed to be floating
down the green water-ways of the pink and pearl city, seated in a black
gondola with silver prow and trailing curtains. The mere lines looked
to him like those straight lines of turquoise-blue that follow one as
one pushes out to the Lido. The sudden flashes of colour reminded him
of the gleam of the opal-and-iris-throated birds that flutter round the
tall honeycombed Campanile, or stalk, with such stately grace, through
the dim, dust-stained arcades. Leaning back with half-closed eyes, he
kept saying over and over to himself:

“Devant une façade rose,
Sur le marbre d’un escalier.”

The whole of Venice was in those two lines. He remembered the autumn
that he had passed there, and a wonderful love that had stirred him to
mad delightful follies. There was romance in every place. But Venice,
like Oxford, had kept the background for romance, and, to the true
romantic, background was everything, or almost everything. Basil had
been with him part of the time, and had gone wild over Tintoret. Poor
Basil! What a horrible way for a man to die!

He sighed, and took up the volume again, and tried to forget. He read
of the swallows that fly in and out of the little _café_ at Smyrna
where the Hadjis sit counting their amber beads and the turbaned
merchants smoke their long tasselled pipes and talk gravely to each
other; he read of the Obelisk in the Place de la Concorde that weeps
tears of granite in its lonely sunless exile and longs to be back by
the hot, lotus-covered Nile, where there are Sphinxes, and rose-red
ibises, and white vultures with gilded claws, and crocodiles with small
beryl eyes that crawl over the green steaming mud; he began to brood
over those verses which, drawing music from kiss-stained marble, tell
of that curious statue that Gautier compares to a contralto voice, the
“_monstre charmant_” that couches in the porphyry-room of the Louvre.
But after a time the book fell from his hand. He grew nervous, and a
horrible fit of terror came over him. What if Alan Campbell should be
out of England? Days would elapse before he could come back. Perhaps he
might refuse to come. What could he do then? Every moment was of vital
importance.

They had been great friends once, five years before—almost inseparable,
indeed. Then the intimacy had come suddenly to an end. When they met in
society now, it was only Dorian Gray who smiled: Alan Campbell never
did.

He was an extremely clever young man, though he had no real
appreciation of the visible arts, and whatever little sense of the
beauty of poetry he possessed he had gained entirely from Dorian. His
dominant intellectual passion was for science. At Cambridge he had
spent a great deal of his time working in the laboratory, and had taken
a good class in the Natural Science Tripos of his year. Indeed, he was
still devoted to the study of chemistry, and had a laboratory of his
own in which he used to shut himself up all day long, greatly to the
annoyance of his mother, who had set her heart on his standing for
Parliament and had a vague idea that a chemist was a person who made up
prescriptions. He was an excellent musician, however, as well, and
played both the violin and the piano better than most amateurs. In
fact, it was music that had first brought him and Dorian Gray
together—music and that indefinable attraction that Dorian seemed to be
able to exercise whenever he wished—and, indeed, exercised often
without being conscious of it. They had met at Lady Berkshire’s the
night that Rubinstein played there, and after that used to be always
seen together at the opera and wherever good music was going on. For
eighteen months their intimacy lasted. Campbell was always either at
Selby Royal or in Grosvenor Square. To him, as to many others, Dorian
Gray was the type of everything that is wonderful and fascinating in
life. Whether or not a quarrel had taken place between them no one ever
knew. But suddenly people remarked that they scarcely spoke when they
met and that Campbell seemed always to go away early from any party at
which Dorian Gray was present. He had changed, too—was strangely
melancholy at times, appeared almost to dislike hearing music, and
would never himself play, giving as his excuse, when he was called
upon, that he was so absorbed in science that he had no time left in
which to practise. And this was certainly true. Every day he seemed to
become more interested in biology, and his name appeared once or twice
in some of the scientific reviews in connection with certain curious
experiments.