Title: Dorian Gray — Part 97

His hand shook, and the candle fell from its socket on the floor and
lay there sputtering. He placed his foot on it and put it out. Then he
flung himself into the rickety chair that was standing by the table and
buried his face in his hands.

“Good God, Dorian, what a lesson! What an awful lesson!” There was no
answer, but he could hear the young man sobbing at the window. “Pray,
Dorian, pray,” he murmured. “What is it that one was taught to say in
one’s boyhood? ‘Lead us not into temptation. Forgive us our sins. Wash
away our iniquities.’ Let us say that together. The prayer of your
pride has been answered. The prayer of your repentance will be answered
also. I worshipped you too much. I am punished for it. You worshipped
yourself too much. We are both punished.”

Dorian Gray turned slowly around and looked at him with tear-dimmed
eyes. “It is too late, Basil,” he faltered.

“It is never too late, Dorian. Let us kneel down and try if we cannot
remember a prayer. Isn’t there a verse somewhere, ‘Though your sins be
as scarlet, yet I will make them as white as snow’?”

“Those words mean nothing to me now.”

“Hush! Don’t say that. You have done enough evil in your life. My God!
Don’t you see that accursed thing leering at us?”

Dorian Gray glanced at the picture, and suddenly an uncontrollable
feeling of hatred for Basil Hallward came over him, as though it had
been suggested to him by the image on the canvas, whispered into his
ear by those grinning lips. The mad passions of a hunted animal stirred
within him, and he loathed the man who was seated at the table, more
than in his whole life he had ever loathed anything. He glanced wildly
around. Something glimmered on the top of the painted chest that faced
him. His eye fell on it. He knew what it was. It was a knife that he
had brought up, some days before, to cut a piece of cord, and had
forgotten to take away with him. He moved slowly towards it, passing
Hallward as he did so. As soon as he got behind him, he seized it and
turned round. Hallward stirred in his chair as if he was going to rise.
He rushed at him and dug the knife into the great vein that is behind
the ear, crushing the man’s head down on the table and stabbing again
and again.

There was a stifled groan and the horrible sound of some one choking
with blood. Three times the outstretched arms shot up convulsively,
waving grotesque, stiff-fingered hands in the air. He stabbed him twice
more, but the man did not move. Something began to trickle on the
floor. He waited for a moment, still pressing the head down. Then he
threw the knife on the table, and listened.

He could hear nothing, but the drip, drip on the threadbare carpet. He
opened the door and went out on the landing. The house was absolutely
quiet. No one was about. For a few seconds he stood bending over the
balustrade and peering down into the black seething well of darkness.
Then he took out the key and returned to the room, locking himself in
as he did so.