Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 61

“Oh, well, that’s all right, because a dream does tire a body like
everything sometimes. But this one was a staving dream; tell me all
about it, Jim.”

So Jim went to work and told me the whole thing right through, just as
it happened, only he painted it up considerable. Then he said he must
start in and “’terpret” it, because it was sent for a warning. He said
the first tow-head stood for a man that would try to do us some good,
but the current was another man that would get us away from him. The
whoops was warnings that would come to us every now and then, and if we
didn’t try hard to make out to understand them they’d just take us into
bad luck, ’stead of keeping us out of it. The lot of tow-heads was
troubles we was going to get into with quarrelsome people and all kinds
of mean folks, but if we minded our business and didn’t talk back and
aggravate them, we would pull through and get out of the fog and into
the big clear river, which was the free States, and wouldn’t have no
more trouble.

It had clouded up pretty dark just after I got on to the raft, but it
was clearing up again now.

“Oh, well, that’s all interpreted well enough as far as it goes, Jim,”
I says; “but what does _these_ things stand for?”

It was the leaves and rubbish on the raft and the smashed oar. You
could see them first-rate now.

Jim looked at the trash, and then looked at me, and back at the trash
again. He had got the dream fixed so strong in his head that he
couldn’t seem to shake it loose and get the facts back into its place
again right away. But when he did get the thing straightened around he
looked at me steady without ever smiling, and says:

“What do dey stan’ for? I’se gwyne to tell you. When I got all wore out
wid work, en wid de callin’ for you, en went to sleep, my heart wuz
mos’ broke bekase you wuz los’, en I didn’ k’yer no’ mo’ what become er
me en de raf’. En when I wake up en fine you back agin, all safe en
soun’, de tears come, en I could a got down on my knees en kiss yo’
foot, I’s so thankful. En all you wuz thinkin’ ’bout wuz how you could
make a fool uv ole Jim wid a lie. Dat truck dah is _trash;_ en trash is
what people is dat puts dirt on de head er dey fren’s en makes ’em
ashamed.”

Then he got up slow and walked to the wigwam, and went in there without
saying anything but that. But that was enough. It made me feel so mean
I could almost kissed _his_ foot to get him to take it back.

It was fifteen minutes before I could work myself up to go and humble
myself to a nigger; but I done it, and I warn’t ever sorry for it
afterwards, neither. I didn’t do him no more mean tricks, and I
wouldn’t done that one if I’d a knowed it would make him feel that way.