Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 164

“Now, there’s _sense_ in that,” I says. “Letting on don’t cost nothing;
letting on ain’t no trouble; and if it’s any object, I don’t mind
letting on we was at it a hundred and fifty year. It wouldn’t strain me
none, after I got my hand in. So I’ll mosey along now, and smouch a
couple of case-knives.”

“Smouch three,” he says; “we want one to make a saw out of.”

“Tom, if it ain’t unregular and irreligious to sejest it,” I says,
“there’s an old rusty saw-blade around yonder sticking under the
weather-boarding behind the smoke-house.”

He looked kind of weary and discouraged-like, and says:

“It ain’t no use to try to learn you nothing, Huck. Run along and
smouch the knives—three of them.” So I done it.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

As soon as we reckoned everybody was asleep that night we went down the
lightning-rod, and shut ourselves up in the lean-to, and got out our
pile of fox-fire, and went to work. We cleared everything out of the
way, about four or five foot along the middle of the bottom log. Tom
said he was right behind Jim’s bed now, and we’d dig in under it, and
when we got through there couldn’t nobody in the cabin ever know there
was any hole there, because Jim’s counter-pin hung down most to the
ground, and you’d have to raise it up and look under to see the hole.
So we dug and dug with the case-knives till most midnight; and then we
was dog-tired, and our hands was blistered, and yet you couldn’t see
we’d done anything hardly. At last I says:

“This ain’t no thirty-seven year job; this is a thirty-eight year job,
Tom Sawyer.”

He never said nothing. But he sighed, and pretty soon he stopped
digging, and then for a good little while I knowed that he was
thinking. Then he says:

“It ain’t no use, Huck, it ain’t a-going to work. If we was prisoners
it would, because then we’d have as many years as we wanted, and no
hurry; and we wouldn’t get but a few minutes to dig, every day, while
they was changing watches, and so our hands wouldn’t get blistered, and
we could keep it up right along, year in and year out, and do it right,
and the way it ought to be done. But _we_ can’t fool along; we got to
rush; we ain’t got no time to spare. If we was to put in another night
this way we’d have to knock off for a week to let our hands get
well—couldn’t touch a case-knife with them sooner.”

“Well, then, what we going to do, Tom?”

“I’ll tell you. It ain’t right, and it ain’t moral, and I wouldn’t like
it to get out; but there ain’t only just the one way: we got to dig him
out with the picks, and _let on_ it’s case-knives.”

“_Now_ you’re _talking!_” I says; “your head gets leveler and leveler
all the time, Tom Sawyer,” I says. “Picks is the thing, moral or no
moral; and as for me, I don’t care shucks for the morality of it,
nohow. When I start in to steal a nigger, or a watermelon, or a
Sunday-school book, I ain’t no ways particular how it’s done so it’s
done. What I want is my nigger; or what I want is my watermelon; or
what I want is my Sunday-school book; and if a pick’s the handiest
thing, that’s the thing I’m a-going to dig that nigger or that
watermelon or that Sunday-school book out with; and I don’t give a dead
rat what the authorities thinks about it nuther.”