Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 48

The fifth night below St. Louis we had a big storm after midnight, with
a power of thunder and lightning, and the rain poured down in a solid
sheet. We stayed in the wigwam and let the raft take care of itself.
When the lightning glared out we could see a big straight river ahead,
and high, rocky bluffs on both sides. By-and-by says I, “Hel-_lo_, Jim,
looky yonder!” It was a steamboat that had killed herself on a rock. We
was drifting straight down for her. The lightning showed her very
distinct. She was leaning over, with part of her upper deck above
water, and you could see every little chimbly-guy clean and clear, and
a chair by the big bell, with an old slouch hat hanging on the back of
it, when the flashes come.

Well, it being away in the night and stormy, and all so
mysterious-like, I felt just the way any other boy would a felt when I
see that wreck laying there so mournful and lonesome in the middle of
the river. I wanted to get aboard of her and slink around a little, and
see what there was there. So I says:

“Le’s land on her, Jim.”

But Jim was dead against it at first. He says:

“I doan’ want to go fool’n ’long er no wrack. We’s doin’ blame’ well,
en we better let blame’ well alone, as de good book says. Like as not
dey’s a watchman on dat wrack.”

“Watchman your grandmother,” I says; “there ain’t nothing to watch but
the texas and the pilot-house; and do you reckon anybody’s going to
resk his life for a texas and a pilot-house such a night as this, when
it’s likely to break up and wash off down the river any minute?” Jim
couldn’t say nothing to that, so he didn’t try. “And besides,” I says,
“we might borrow something worth having out of the captain’s stateroom.
Seegars, _I_ bet you—and cost five cents apiece, solid cash. Steamboat
captains is always rich, and get sixty dollars a month, and _they_
don’t care a cent what a thing costs, you know, long as they want it.
Stick a candle in your pocket; I can’t rest, Jim, till we give her a
rummaging. Do you reckon Tom Sawyer would ever go by this thing? Not
for pie, he wouldn’t. He’d call it an adventure—that’s what he’d call
it; and he’d land on that wreck if it was his last act. And wouldn’t he
throw style into it?—wouldn’t he spread himself, nor nothing? Why,
you’d think it was Christopher C’lumbus discovering Kingdom-Come. I
wish Tom Sawyer _was_ here.”

Jim he grumbled a little, but give in. He said we mustn’t talk any more
than we could help, and then talk mighty low. The lightning showed us
the wreck again just in time, and we fetched the stabboard derrick, and
made fast there.

The deck was high out here. We went sneaking down the slope of it to
labboard, in the dark, towards the texas, feeling our way slow with our
feet, and spreading our hands out to fend off the guys, for it was so
dark we couldn’t see no sign of them. Pretty soon we struck the forward
end of the skylight, and clumb on to it; and the next step fetched us
in front of the captain’s door, which was open, and by Jimminy, away
down through the texas-hall we see a light! and all in the same second
we seem to hear low voices in yonder!