Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 146

“No! That old fool sold him, and never divided with me, and the money’s
gone.”

“_Sold_ him?” I says, and begun to cry; “why, he was _my_ nigger, and
that was my money. Where is he?—I want my nigger.”

“Well, you can’t _get_ your nigger, that’s all—so dry up your
blubbering. Looky here—do you think _you’d_ venture to blow on us?
Blamed if I think I’d trust you. Why, if you _was_ to blow on us—”

He stopped, but I never see the duke look so ugly out of his eyes
before. I went on a-whimpering, and says:

“I don’t want to blow on nobody; and I ain’t got no time to blow,
nohow. I got to turn out and find my nigger.”

He looked kinder bothered, and stood there with his bills fluttering on
his arm, thinking, and wrinkling up his forehead. At last he says:

“I’ll tell you something. We got to be here three days. If you’ll
promise you won’t blow, and won’t let the nigger blow, I’ll tell you
where to find him.”

So I promised, and he says:

“A farmer by the name of Silas Ph—” and then he stopped. You see, he
started to tell me the truth; but when he stopped that way, and begun
to study and think again, I reckoned he was changing his mind. And so
he was. He wouldn’t trust me; he wanted to make sure of having me out
of the way the whole three days. So pretty soon he says:

“The man that bought him is named Abram Foster—Abram G. Foster—and he
lives forty mile back here in the country, on the road to Lafayette.”

“All right,” I says, “I can walk it in three days. And I’ll start this
very afternoon.”

“No you wont, you’ll start _now;_ and don’t you lose any time about it,
neither, nor do any gabbling by the way. Just keep a tight tongue in
your head and move right along, and then you won’t get into trouble
with _us_, d’ye hear?”

That was the order I wanted, and that was the one I played for. I
wanted to be left free to work my plans.

“So clear out,” he says; “and you can tell Mr. Foster whatever you want
to. Maybe you can get him to believe that Jim _is_ your nigger—some
idiots don’t require documents—leastways I’ve heard there’s such down
South here. And when you tell him the handbill and the reward’s bogus,
maybe he’ll believe you when you explain to him what the idea was for
getting ’em out. Go ’long now, and tell him anything you want to; but
mind you don’t work your jaw any _between_ here and there.”

So I left, and struck for the back country. I didn’t look around, but I
kinder felt like he was watching me. But I knowed I could tire him out
at that. I went straight out in the country as much as a mile before I
stopped; then I doubled back through the woods towards Phelps’. I
reckoned I better start in on my plan straight off without fooling
around, because I wanted to stop Jim’s mouth till these fellows could
get away. I didn’t want no trouble with their kind. I’d seen all I
wanted to of them, and wanted to get entirely shut of them.