Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 41

“No; but I don’t know everybody yet. I haven’t lived here quite two
weeks. It’s a considerable ways to the upper end of the town. You
better stay here all night. Take off your bonnet.”

“No,” I says; “I’ll rest a while, I reckon, and go on. I ain’t afeared
of the dark.”

She said she wouldn’t let me go by myself, but her husband would be in
by-and-by, maybe in a hour and a half, and she’d send him along with
me. Then she got to talking about her husband, and about her relations
up the river, and her relations down the river, and about how much
better off they used to was, and how they didn’t know but they’d made a
mistake coming to our town, instead of letting well alone—and so on and
so on, till I was afeard _I_ had made a mistake coming to her to find
out what was going on in the town; but by-and-by she dropped on to pap
and the murder, and then I was pretty willing to let her clatter right
along. She told about me and Tom Sawyer finding the six thousand
dollars (only she got it ten) and all about pap and what a hard lot he
was, and what a hard lot I was, and at last she got down to where I was
murdered. I says:

“Who done it? We’ve heard considerable about these goings on down in
Hookerville, but we don’t know who ’twas that killed Huck Finn.”

“Well, I reckon there’s a right smart chance of people _here_ that’d
like to know who killed him. Some think old Finn done it himself.”

“No—is that so?”

“Most everybody thought it at first. He’ll never know how nigh he come
to getting lynched. But before night they changed around and judged it
was done by a runaway nigger named Jim.”

“Why _he_—”

I stopped. I reckoned I better keep still. She run on, and never
noticed I had put in at all:

“The nigger run off the very night Huck Finn was killed. So there’s a
reward out for him—three hundred dollars. And there’s a reward out for
old Finn, too—two hundred dollars. You see, he come to town the morning
after the murder, and told about it, and was out with ’em on the
ferry-boat hunt, and right away after he up and left. Before night they
wanted to lynch him, but he was gone, you see. Well, next day they
found out the nigger was gone; they found out he hadn’t ben seen sence
ten o’clock the night the murder was done. So then they put it on him,
you see; and while they was full of it, next day, back comes old Finn,
and went boo-hooing to Judge Thatcher to get money to hunt for the
nigger all over Illinois with. The judge gave him some, and that
evening he got drunk, and was around till after midnight with a couple
of mighty hard-looking strangers, and then went off with them. Well, he
hain’t come back sence, and they ain’t looking for him back till this
thing blows over a little, for people thinks now that he killed his boy
and fixed things so folks would think robbers done it, and then he’d
get Huck’s money without having to bother a long time with a lawsuit.
People do say he warn’t any too good to do it. Oh, he’s sly, I reckon.
If he don’t come back for a year he’ll be all right. You can’t prove
anything on him, you know; everything will be quieted down then, and
he’ll walk in Huck’s money as easy as nothing.”