Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 181

“You been down cellar?”

“Yes’m.”

“What you been doing down there?”

“Noth’n.”

“_Noth’n!_”

“No’m.”

“Well, then, what possessed you to go down there this time of night?”

“I don’t know ’m.”

“You don’t _know?_ Don’t answer me that way. Tom, I want to know what
you been _doing_ down there.”

“I hain’t been doing a single thing, Aunt Sally, I hope to gracious if
I have.”

I reckoned she’d let me go now, and as a generl thing she would; but I
s’pose there was so many strange things going on she was just in a
sweat about every little thing that warn’t yard-stick straight; so she
says, very decided:

“You just march into that setting-room and stay there till I come. You
been up to something you no business to, and I lay I’ll find out what
it is before _I’m_ done with you.”

So she went away as I opened the door and walked into the setting-room.
My, but there was a crowd there! Fifteen farmers, and every one of them
had a gun. I was most powerful sick, and slunk to a chair and set down.
They was setting around, some of them talking a little, in a low voice,
and all of them fidgety and uneasy, but trying to look like they
warn’t; but I knowed they was, because they was always taking off their
hats, and putting them on, and scratching their heads, and changing
their seats, and fumbling with their buttons. I warn’t easy myself, but
I didn’t take my hat off, all the same.

I did wish Aunt Sally would come, and get done with me, and lick me, if
she wanted to, and let me get away and tell Tom how we’d overdone this
thing, and what a thundering hornet’s-nest we’d got ourselves into, so
we could stop fooling around straight off, and clear out with Jim
before these rips got out of patience and come for us.

At last she come and begun to ask me questions, but I _couldn’t_ answer
them straight, I didn’t know which end of me was up; because these men
was in such a fidget now that some was wanting to start right _now_ and
lay for them desperadoes, and saying it warn’t but a few minutes to
midnight; and others was trying to get them to hold on and wait for the
sheep-signal; and here was Aunty pegging away at the questions, and me
a-shaking all over and ready to sink down in my tracks I was that
scared; and the place getting hotter and hotter, and the butter
beginning to melt and run down my neck and behind my ears; and pretty
soon, when one of them says, “_I’m_ for going and getting in the cabin
_first_ and right _now_, and catching them when they come,” I most
dropped; and a streak of butter come a-trickling down my forehead, and
Aunt Sally she see it, and turns white as a sheet, and says:

“For the land’s sake, what _is_ the matter with the child? He’s got the
brain-fever as shore as you’re born, and they’re oozing out!”