Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 182

And everybody runs to see, and she snatches off my hat, and out comes
the bread and what was left of the butter, and she grabbed me, and
hugged me, and says:

“Oh, what a turn you did give me! and how glad and grateful I am it
ain’t no worse; for luck’s against us, and it never rains but it pours,
and when I see that truck I thought we’d lost you, for I knowed by the
color and all it was just like your brains would be if—Dear, dear,
whyd’nt you _tell_ me that was what you’d been down there for, _I_
wouldn’t a cared. Now cler out to bed, and don’t lemme see no more of
you till morning!”

I was up stairs in a second, and down the lightning-rod in another one,
and shinning through the dark for the lean-to. I couldn’t hardly get my
words out, I was so anxious; but I told Tom as quick as I could we must
jump for it now, and not a minute to lose—the house full of men,
yonder, with guns!

His eyes just blazed; and he says:

“No!—is that so? _Ain’t_ it bully! Why, Huck, if it was to do over
again, I bet I could fetch two hundred! If we could put it off till—”

“Hurry! _hurry!_” I says. “Where’s Jim?”

“Right at your elbow; if you reach out your arm you can touch him. He’s
dressed, and everything’s ready. Now we’ll slide out and give the
sheep-signal.”

But then we heard the tramp of men coming to the door, and heard them
begin to fumble with the pad-lock, and heard a man say:

“I _told_ you we’d be too soon; they haven’t come—the door is locked.
Here, I’ll lock some of you into the cabin, and you lay for ’em in the
dark and kill ’em when they come; and the rest scatter around a piece,
and listen if you can hear ’em coming.”

So in they come, but couldn’t see us in the dark, and most trod on us
whilst we was hustling to get under the bed. But we got under all
right, and out through the hole, swift but soft—Jim first, me next, and
Tom last, which was according to Tom’s orders. Now we was in the
lean-to, and heard trampings close by outside. So we crept to the door,
and Tom stopped us there and put his eye to the crack, but couldn’t
make out nothing, it was so dark; and whispered and said he would
listen for the steps to get further, and when he nudged us Jim must
glide out first, and him last. So he set his ear to the crack and
listened, and listened, and listened, and the steps a-scraping around
out there all the time; and at last he nudged us, and we slid out, and
stooped down, not breathing, and not making the least noise, and
slipped stealthy towards the fence in Injun file, and got to it all
right, and me and Jim over it; but Tom’s britches catched fast on a
splinter on the top rail, and then he hear the steps coming, so he had
to pull loose, which snapped the splinter and made a noise; and as he
dropped in our tracks and started somebody sings out: