Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 172

Nat didn’t look when we put the witch pie in Jim’s pan; and we put the
three tin plates in the bottom of the pan under the vittles; and so Jim
got everything all right, and as soon as he was by himself he busted
into the pie and hid the rope ladder inside of his straw tick, and
scratched some marks on a tin plate and throwed it out of the
window-hole.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

Making them pens was a distressid tough job, and so was the saw; and
Jim allowed the inscription was going to be the toughest of all. That’s
the one which the prisoner has to scrabble on the wall. But he had to
have it; Tom said he’d _got_ to; there warn’t no case of a state
prisoner not scrabbling his inscription to leave behind, and his coat
of arms.

“Look at Lady Jane Grey,” he says; “look at Gilford Dudley; look at old
Northumberland! Why, Huck, s’pose it _is_ considerble trouble?—what you
going to do?—how you going to get around it? Jim’s _got_ to do his
inscription and coat of arms. They all do.”

Jim says:

“Why, Mars Tom, I hain’t got no coat o’ arm; I hain’t got nuffn but
dish yer ole shirt, en you knows I got to keep de journal on dat.”

“Oh, you don’t understand, Jim; a coat of arms is very different.”

“Well,” I says, “Jim’s right, anyway, when he says he ain’t got no coat
of arms, because he hain’t.”

“I reckon _I_ knowed that,” Tom says, “but you bet he’ll have one
before he goes out of this—because he’s going out _right_, and there
ain’t going to be no flaws in his record.”

So whilst me and Jim filed away at the pens on a brickbat apiece, Jim
a-making his’n out of the brass and I making mine out of the spoon, Tom
set to work to think out the coat of arms. By-and-by he said he’d
struck so many good ones he didn’t hardly know which to take, but there
was one which he reckoned he’d decide on. He says:

“On the scutcheon we’ll have a bend _or_ in the dexter base, a saltire
_murrey_ in the fess, with a dog, couchant, for common charge, and
under his foot a chain embattled, for slavery, with a chevron _vert_ in
a chief engrailed, and three invected lines on a field _azure_, with
the nombril points rampant on a dancette indented; crest, a runaway
nigger, _sable_, with his bundle over his shoulder on a bar sinister;
and a couple of gules for supporters, which is you and me; motto,
_Maggiore fretta, minore atto._ Got it out of a book—means the more
haste, the less speed.”

“Geewhillikins,” I says, “but what does the rest of it mean?”

“We ain’t got no time to bother over that,” he says; “we got to dig in
like all git-out.”

“Well, anyway,” I says, “what’s _some_ of it? What’s a fess?”

“A fess—a fess is—_you_ don’t need to know what a fess is. I’ll show
him how to make it when he gets to it.”