Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 194

And his Aunt Polly she said Tom was right about old Miss Watson setting
Jim free in her will; and so, sure enough, Tom Sawyer had gone and took
all that trouble and bother to set a free nigger free! and I couldn’t
ever understand before, until that minute and that talk, how he _could_
help a body set a nigger free with his bringing-up.

Well, Aunt Polly she said that when Aunt Sally wrote to her that Tom
and _Sid_ had come all right and safe, she says to herself:

“Look at that, now! I might have expected it, letting him go off that
way without anybody to watch him. So now I got to go and trapse all the
way down the river, eleven hundred mile, and find out what that
creetur’s up to _this_ time; as long as I couldn’t seem to get any
answer out of you about it.”

“Why, I never heard nothing from you,” says Aunt Sally.

“Well, I wonder! Why, I wrote you twice to ask you what you could mean
by Sid being here.”

“Well, I never got ’em, Sis.”

Aunt Polly she turns around slow and severe, and says:

“You, Tom!”

“Well—_what?_” he says, kind of pettish.

“Don’t you what _me_, you impudent thing—hand out them letters.”

“What letters?”

“_Them_ letters. I be bound, if I have to take aholt of you I’ll—”

“They’re in the trunk. There, now. And they’re just the same as they
was when I got them out of the office. I hain’t looked into them, I
hain’t touched them. But I knowed they’d make trouble, and I thought if
you warn’t in no hurry, I’d—”

“Well, you _do_ need skinning, there ain’t no mistake about it. And I
wrote another one to tell you I was coming; and I s’pose he—”

“No, it come yesterday; I hain’t read it yet, but _it’s_ all right,
I’ve got that one.”

I wanted to offer to bet two dollars she hadn’t, but I reckoned maybe
it was just as safe to not to. So I never said nothing.

CHAPTER THE LAST

The first time I catched Tom private I asked him what was his idea,
time of the evasion?—what it was he’d planned to do if the evasion
worked all right and he managed to set a nigger free that was already
free before? And he said, what he had planned in his head from the
start, if we got Jim out all safe, was for us to run him down the river
on the raft, and have adventures plumb to the mouth of the river, and
then tell him about his being free, and take him back up home on a
steamboat, in style, and pay him for his lost time, and write word
ahead and get out all the niggers around, and have them waltz him into
town with a torchlight procession and a brass-band, and then he would
be a hero, and so would we. But I reckoned it was about as well the way
it was.