Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 190

They cussed Jim considerble, though, and give him a cuff or two side
the head once in a while, but Jim never said nothing, and he never let
on to know me, and they took him to the same cabin, and put his own
clothes on him, and chained him again, and not to no bed-leg this time,
but to a big staple drove into the bottom log, and chained his hands,
too, and both legs, and said he warn’t to have nothing but bread and
water to eat after this till his owner come, or he was sold at auction
because he didn’t come in a certain length of time, and filled up our
hole, and said a couple of farmers with guns must stand watch around
about the cabin every night, and a bulldog tied to the door in the
daytime; and about this time they was through with the job and was
tapering off with a kind of generl good-bye cussing, and then the old
doctor comes and takes a look, and says:

“Don’t be no rougher on him than you’re obleeged to, because he ain’t a
bad nigger. When I got to where I found the boy I see I couldn’t cut
the bullet out without some help, and he warn’t in no condition for me
to leave to go and get help; and he got a little worse and a little
worse, and after a long time he went out of his head, and wouldn’t let
me come a-nigh him any more, and said if I chalked his raft he’d kill
me, and no end of wild foolishness like that, and I see I couldn’t do
anything at all with him; so I says, I got to have _help_ somehow; and
the minute I says it out crawls this nigger from somewheres and says
he’ll help, and he done it, too, and done it very well. Of course I
judged he must be a runaway nigger, and there I _was!_ and there I had
to stick right straight along all the rest of the day and all night. It
was a fix, I tell you! I had a couple of patients with the chills, and
of course I’d of liked to run up to town and see them, but I dasn’t,
because the nigger might get away, and then I’d be to blame; and yet
never a skiff come close enough for me to hail. So there I had to stick
plumb until daylight this morning; and I never see a nigger that was a
better nuss or faithfuller, and yet he was risking his freedom to do
it, and was all tired out, too, and I see plain enough he’d been worked
main hard lately. I liked the nigger for that; I tell you, gentlemen, a
nigger like that is worth a thousand dollars—and kind treatment, too. I
had everything I needed, and the boy was doing as well there as he
would a done at home—better, maybe, because it was so quiet; but there
I _was_, with both of ’m on my hands, and there I had to stick till
about dawn this morning; then some men in a skiff come by, and as good
luck would have it the nigger was setting by the pallet with his head
propped on his knees sound asleep; so I motioned them in quiet, and
they slipped up on him and grabbed him and tied him before he knowed
what he was about, and we never had no trouble. And the boy being in a
kind of a flighty sleep, too, we muffled the oars and hitched the raft
on, and towed her over very nice and quiet, and the nigger never made
the least row nor said a word from the start. He ain’t no bad nigger,
gentlemen; that’s what I think about him.”