Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 94

We all said the duke was pretty smart, and there couldn’t be no trouble
about running daytimes. We judged we could make miles enough that night
to get out of the reach of the powwow we reckoned the duke’s work in
the printing office was going to make in that little town; then we
could boom right along if we wanted to.

We laid low and kept still, and never shoved out till nearly ten
o’clock; then we slid by, pretty wide away from the town, and didn’t
hoist our lantern till we was clear out of sight of it.

When Jim called me to take the watch at four in the morning, he says:

“Huck, does you reck’n we gwyne to run acrost any mo’ kings on dis
trip?”

“No,” I says, “I reckon not.”

“Well,” says he, “dat’s all right, den. I doan’ mine one er two kings,
but dat’s enough. Dis one’s powerful drunk, en de duke ain’ much
better.”

I found Jim had been trying to get him to talk French, so he could hear
what it was like; but he said he had been in this country so long, and
had so much trouble, he’d forgot it.

CHAPTER XXI.

It was after sun-up now, but we went right on and didn’t tie up. The
king and the duke turned out by-and-by looking pretty rusty; but after
they’d jumped overboard and took a swim it chippered them up a good
deal. After breakfast the king he took a seat on the corner of the
raft, and pulled off his boots and rolled up his britches, and let his
legs dangle in the water, so as to be comfortable, and lit his pipe,
and went to getting his Romeo and Juliet by heart. When he had got it
pretty good, him and the duke begun to practice it together. The duke
had to learn him over and over again how to say every speech; and he
made him sigh, and put his hand on his heart, and after a while he said
he done it pretty well; “only,” he says, “you mustn’t bellow out
_Romeo!_ that way, like a bull—you must say it soft and sick and
languishy, so—R-o-o-meo! that is the idea; for Juliet’s a dear sweet
mere child of a girl, you know, and she doesn’t bray like a jackass.”

Well, next they got out a couple of long swords that the duke made out
of oak laths, and begun to practice the sword fight—the duke called
himself Richard III.; and the way they laid on and pranced around the
raft was grand to see. But by-and-by the king tripped and fell
overboard, and after that they took a rest, and had a talk about all
kinds of adventures they’d had in other times along the river.

After dinner the duke says:

“Well, Capet, we’ll want to make this a first-class show, you know, so
I guess we’ll add a little more to it. We want a little something to
answer encores with, anyway.”