Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 11

“Why,” said he, “a magician could call up a lot of genies, and they
would hash you up like nothing before you could say Jack Robinson. They
are as tall as a tree and as big around as a church.”

“Well,” I says, “s’pose we got some genies to help _us_—can’t we lick
the other crowd then?”

“How you going to get them?”

“I don’t know. How do _they_ get them?”

“Why, they rub an old tin lamp or an iron ring, and then the genies
come tearing in, with the thunder and lightning a-ripping around and
the smoke a-rolling, and everything they’re told to do they up and do
it. They don’t think nothing of pulling a shot-tower up by the roots,
and belting a Sunday-school superintendent over the head with it—or any
other man.”

“Who makes them tear around so?”

“Why, whoever rubs the lamp or the ring. They belong to whoever rubs
the lamp or the ring, and they’ve got to do whatever he says. If he
tells them to build a palace forty miles long out of di’monds, and fill
it full of chewing-gum, or whatever you want, and fetch an emperor’s
daughter from China for you to marry, they’ve got to do it—and they’ve
got to do it before sun-up next morning, too. And more: they’ve got to
waltz that palace around over the country wherever you want it, you
understand.”

“Well,” says I, “I think they are a pack of flat-heads for not keeping
the palace themselves ’stead of fooling them away like that. And what’s
more—if I was one of them I would see a man in Jericho before I would
drop my business and come to him for the rubbing of an old tin lamp.”

“How you talk, Huck Finn. Why, you’d _have_ to come when he rubbed it,
whether you wanted to or not.”

“What! and I as high as a tree and as big as a church? All right, then;
I _would_ come; but I lay I’d make that man climb the highest tree
there was in the country.”

“Shucks, it ain’t no use to talk to you, Huck Finn. You don’t seem to
know anything, somehow—perfect saphead.”

I thought all this over for two or three days, and then I reckoned I
would see if there was anything in it. I got an old tin lamp and an
iron ring, and went out in the woods and rubbed and rubbed till I sweat
like an Injun, calculating to build a palace and sell it; but it warn’t
no use, none of the genies come. So then I judged that all that stuff
was only just one of Tom Sawyer’s lies. I reckoned he believed in the
A-rabs and the elephants, but as for me I think different. It had all
the marks of a Sunday-school.

CHAPTER IV.

Well, three or four months run along, and it was well into the winter
now. I had been to school most all the time and could spell and read
and write just a little, and could say the multiplication table up to
six times seven is thirty-five, and I don’t reckon I could ever get any
further than that if I was to live forever. I don’t take no stock in
mathematics, anyway.