Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 122

When the place was packed full the undertaker he slid around in his
black gloves with his softy soothering ways, putting on the last
touches, and getting people and things all ship-shape and comfortable,
and making no more sound than a cat. He never spoke; he moved people
around, he squeezed in late ones, he opened up passageways, and done it
with nods, and signs with his hands. Then he took his place over
against the wall. He was the softest, glidingest, stealthiest man I
ever see; and there warn’t no more smile to him than there is to a ham.

They had borrowed a melodeum—a sick one; and when everything was ready
a young woman set down and worked it, and it was pretty skreeky and
colicky, and everybody joined in and sung, and Peter was the only one
that had a good thing, according to my notion. Then the Reverend Hobson
opened up, slow and solemn, and begun to talk; and straight off the
most outrageous row busted out in the cellar a body ever heard; it was
only one dog, but he made a most powerful racket, and he kept it up
right along; the parson he had to stand there, over the coffin, and
wait—you couldn’t hear yourself think. It was right down awkward, and
nobody didn’t seem to know what to do. But pretty soon they see that
long-legged undertaker make a sign to the preacher as much as to say,
“Don’t you worry—just depend on me.” Then he stooped down and begun to
glide along the wall, just his shoulders showing over the people’s
heads. So he glided along, and the powwow and racket getting more and
more outrageous all the time; and at last, when he had gone around two
sides of the room, he disappears down cellar. Then in about two seconds
we heard a whack, and the dog he finished up with a most amazing howl
or two, and then everything was dead still, and the parson begun his
solemn talk where he left off. In a minute or two here comes this
undertaker’s back and shoulders gliding along the wall again; and so he
glided and glided around three sides of the room, and then rose up, and
shaded his mouth with his hands, and stretched his neck out towards the
preacher, over the people’s heads, and says, in a kind of a coarse
whisper, “_He had a rat!_” Then he drooped down and glided along the
wall again to his place. You could see it was a great satisfaction to
the people, because naturally they wanted to know. A little thing like
that don’t cost nothing, and it’s just the little things that makes a
man to be looked up to and liked. There warn’t no more popular man in
town than what that undertaker was.

Well, the funeral sermon was very good, but pison long and tiresome;
and then the king he shoved in and got off some of his usual rubbage,
and at last the job was through, and the undertaker begun to sneak up
on the coffin with his screw-driver. I was in a sweat then, and watched
him pretty keen. But he never meddled at all; just slid the lid along
as soft as mush, and screwed it down tight and fast. So there I was! I
didn’t know whether the money was in there or not. So, says I, s’pose
somebody has hogged that bag on the sly?—now how do _I_ know whether to
write to Mary Jane or not? S’pose she dug him up and didn’t find
nothing, what would she think of me? Blame it, I says, I might get
hunted up and jailed; I’d better lay low and keep dark, and not write
at all; the thing’s awful mixed now; trying to better it, I’ve worsened
it a hundred times, and I wish to goodness I’d just let it alone, dad
fetch the whole business!