Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 155

“Pa, mayn’t Tom and Sid and me go to the show?”

“No,” says the old man, “I reckon there ain’t going to be any; and you
couldn’t go if there was; because the runaway nigger told Burton and me
all about that scandalous show, and Burton said he would tell the
people; so I reckon they’ve drove the owdacious loafers out of town
before this time.”

So there it was!—but _I_ couldn’t help it. Tom and me was to sleep in
the same room and bed; so, being tired, we bid good-night and went up
to bed right after supper, and clumb out of the window and down the
lightning-rod, and shoved for the town; for I didn’t believe anybody
was going to give the king and the duke a hint, and so if I didn’t
hurry up and give them one they’d get into trouble sure.

On the road Tom he told me all about how it was reckoned I was
murdered, and how pap disappeared pretty soon, and didn’t come back no
more, and what a stir there was when Jim run away; and I told Tom all
about our Royal Nonesuch rapscallions, and as much of the raft voyage
as I had time to; and as we struck into the town and up through the
middle of it—it was as much as half-after eight, then—here comes a
raging rush of people with torches, and an awful whooping and yelling,
and banging tin pans and blowing horns; and we jumped to one side to
let them go by; and as they went by I see they had the king and the
duke astraddle of a rail—that is, I knowed it _was_ the king and the
duke, though they was all over tar and feathers, and didn’t look like
nothing in the world that was human—just looked like a couple of
monstrous big soldier-plumes. Well, it made me sick to see it; and I
was sorry for them poor pitiful rascals, it seemed like I couldn’t ever
feel any hardness against them any more in the world. It was a dreadful
thing to see. Human beings _can_ be awful cruel to one another.

We see we was too late—couldn’t do no good. We asked some stragglers
about it, and they said everybody went to the show looking very
innocent; and laid low and kept dark till the poor old king was in the
middle of his cavortings on the stage; then somebody give a signal, and
the house rose up and went for them.

So we poked along back home, and I warn’t feeling so brash as I was
before, but kind of ornery, and humble, and to blame, somehow—though
_I_ hadn’t done nothing. But that’s always the way; it don’t make no
difference whether you do right or wrong, a person’s conscience ain’t
got no sense, and just goes for him _anyway_. If I had a yaller dog
that didn’t know no more than a person’s conscience does I would pison
him. It takes up more room than all the rest of a person’s insides, and
yet ain’t no good, nohow. Tom Sawyer he says the same.