Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 105

I done it, and he done the same. We struck the raft at the same time,
and in less than two seconds we was gliding down stream, all dark and
still, and edging towards the middle of the river, nobody saying a
word. I reckoned the poor king was in for a gaudy time of it with the
audience, but nothing of the sort; pretty soon he crawls out from under
the wigwam, and says:

“Well, how’d the old thing pan out this time, duke?”

He hadn’t been up town at all.

We never showed a light till we was about ten mile below the village.
Then we lit up and had a supper, and the king and the duke fairly
laughed their bones loose over the way they’d served them people. The
duke says:

“Greenhorns, flatheads! _I_ knew the first house would keep mum and let
the rest of the town get roped in; and I knew they’d lay for us the
third night, and consider it was _their_ turn now. Well, it _is_ their
turn, and I’d give something to know how much they’d take for it. I
_would_ just like to know how they’re putting in their opportunity.
They can turn it into a picnic if they want to—they brought plenty
provisions.”

Them rapscallions took in four hundred and sixty-five dollars in that
three nights. I never see money hauled in by the wagon-load like that
before. By-and-by, when they was asleep and snoring, Jim says:

“Don’t it s’prise you de way dem kings carries on, Huck?”

“No,” I says, “it don’t.”

“Why don’t it, Huck?”

“Well, it don’t, because it’s in the breed. I reckon they’re all
alike.”

“But, Huck, dese kings o’ ourn is reglar rapscallions; dat’s jist what
dey is; dey’s reglar rapscallions.”

“Well, that’s what I’m a-saying; all kings is mostly rapscallions, as
fur as I can make out.”

“Is dat so?”

“You read about them once—you’ll see. Look at Henry the Eight; this’n
’s a Sunday-school Superintendent to _him_. And look at Charles Second,
and Louis Fourteen, and Louis Fifteen, and James Second, and Edward
Second, and Richard Third, and forty more; besides all them Saxon
heptarchies that used to rip around so in old times and raise Cain. My,
you ought to seen old Henry the Eight when he was in bloom. He _was_ a
blossom. He used to marry a new wife every day, and chop off her head
next morning. And he would do it just as indifferent as if he was
ordering up eggs. ‘Fetch up Nell Gwynn,’ he says. They fetch her up.
Next morning, ‘Chop off her head!’ And they chop it off. ‘Fetch up Jane
Shore,’ he says; and up she comes. Next morning, ‘Chop off her
head’—and they chop it off. ‘Ring up Fair Rosamun.’ Fair Rosamun
answers the bell. Next morning, ‘Chop off her head.’ And he made every
one of them tell him a tale every night; and he kept that up till he
had hogged a thousand and one tales that way, and then he put them all
in a book, and called it Domesday Book—which was a good name and stated
the case. You don’t know kings, Jim, but I know them; and this old rip
of ourn is one of the cleanest I’ve struck in history. Well, Henry he
takes a notion he wants to get up some trouble with this country. How
does he go at it—give notice?—give the country a show? No. All of a
sudden he heaves all the tea in Boston Harbor overboard, and whacks out
a declaration of independence, and dares them to come on. That was
_his_ style—he never give anybody a chance. He had suspicions of his
father, the Duke of Wellington. Well, what did he do? Ask him to show
up? No—drownded him in a butt of mamsey, like a cat. S’pose people left
money laying around where he was—what did he do? He collared it. S’pose
he contracted to do a thing, and you paid him, and didn’t set down
there and see that he done it—what did he do? He always done the other
thing. S’pose he opened his mouth—what then? If he didn’t shut it up
powerful quick he’d lose a lie every time. That’s the kind of a bug
Henry was; and if we’d a had him along ’stead of our kings he’d a
fooled that town a heap worse than ourn done. I don’t say that ourn is
lambs, because they ain’t, when you come right down to the cold facts;
but they ain’t nothing to _that_ old ram, anyway. All I say is, kings
is kings, and you got to make allowances. Take them all around, they’re
a mighty ornery lot. It’s the way they’re raised.”