Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 134

The doctor and several said “Shucks!” and I see nobody didn’t
altogether believe him. One man asked me if I see the niggers steal it.
I said no, but I see them sneaking out of the room and hustling away,
and I never thought nothing, only I reckoned they was afraid they had
waked up my master and was trying to get away before he made trouble
with them. That was all they asked me. Then the doctor whirls on me and
says:

“Are _you_ English, too?”

I says yes; and him and some others laughed, and said, “Stuff!”

Well, then they sailed in on the general investigation, and there we
had it, up and down, hour in, hour out, and nobody never said a word
about supper, nor ever seemed to think about it—and so they kept it up,
and kept it up; and it _was_ the worst mixed-up thing you ever see.
They made the king tell his yarn, and they made the old gentleman tell
his’n; and anybody but a lot of prejudiced chuckleheads would a _seen_
that the old gentleman was spinning truth and t’other one lies. And
by-and-by they had me up to tell what I knowed. The king he give me a
left-handed look out of the corner of his eye, and so I knowed enough
to talk on the right side. I begun to tell about Sheffield, and how we
lived there, and all about the English Wilkses, and so on; but I didn’t
get pretty fur till the doctor begun to laugh; and Levi Bell, the
lawyer, says:

“Set down, my boy; I wouldn’t strain myself if I was you. I reckon you
ain’t used to lying, it don’t seem to come handy; what you want is
practice. You do it pretty awkward.”

I didn’t care nothing for the compliment, but I was glad to be let off,
anyway.

The doctor he started to say something, and turns and says:

“If you’d been in town at first, Levi Bell—” The king broke in and
reached out his hand, and says:

“Why, is this my poor dead brother’s old friend that he’s wrote so
often about?”

The lawyer and him shook hands, and the lawyer smiled and looked
pleased, and they talked right along awhile, and then got to one side
and talked low; and at last the lawyer speaks up and says:

“That’ll fix it. I’ll take the order and send it, along with your
brother’s, and then they’ll know it’s all right.”

So they got some paper and a pen, and the king he set down and twisted
his head to one side, and chawed his tongue, and scrawled off
something; and then they give the pen to the duke—and then for the
first time the duke looked sick. But he took the pen and wrote. So then
the lawyer turns to the new old gentleman and says:

“You and your brother please write a line or two and sign your names.”