Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 49

Jim whispered and said he was feeling powerful sick, and told me to
come along. I says, all right, and was going to start for the raft; but
just then I heard a voice wail out and say:

“Oh, please don’t, boys; I swear I won’t ever tell!”

Another voice said, pretty loud:

“It’s a lie, Jim Turner. You’ve acted this way before. You always want
more’n your share of the truck, and you’ve always got it, too, because
you’ve swore ’t if you didn’t you’d tell. But this time you’ve said it
jest one time too many. You’re the meanest, treacherousest hound in
this country.”

By this time Jim was gone for the raft. I was just a-biling with
curiosity; and I says to myself, Tom Sawyer wouldn’t back out now, and
so I won’t either; I’m a-going to see what’s going on here. So I
dropped on my hands and knees in the little passage, and crept aft in
the dark till there warn’t but one stateroom betwixt me and the
cross-hall of the texas. Then in there I see a man stretched on the
floor and tied hand and foot, and two men standing over him, and one of
them had a dim lantern in his hand, and the other one had a pistol.
This one kept pointing the pistol at the man’s head on the floor, and
saying:

“I’d _like_ to! And I orter, too—a mean skunk!”

The man on the floor would shrivel up and say, “Oh, please don’t, Bill;
I hain’t ever goin’ to tell.”

And every time he said that the man with the lantern would laugh and
say:

“’Deed you _ain’t!_ You never said no truer thing ’n that, you bet
you.” And once he said: “Hear him beg! and yit if we hadn’t got the
best of him and tied him he’d a killed us both. And what _for?_ Jist
for noth’n. Jist because we stood on our _rights_—that’s what for. But
I lay you ain’t a-goin’ to threaten nobody any more, Jim Turner. Put
_up_ that pistol, Bill.”

Bill says:

“I don’t want to, Jake Packard. I’m for killin’ him—and didn’t he kill
old Hatfield jist the same way—and don’t he deserve it?”

“But I don’t _want_ him killed, and I’ve got my reasons for it.”

“Bless yo’ heart for them words, Jake Packard! I’ll never forgit you
long’s I live!” says the man on the floor, sort of blubbering.

Packard didn’t take no notice of that, but hung up his lantern on a
nail and started towards where I was there in the dark, and motioned
Bill to come. I crawfished as fast as I could about two yards, but the
boat slanted so that I couldn’t make very good time; so to keep from
getting run over and catched I crawled into a stateroom on the upper
side. The man came a-pawing along in the dark, and when Packard got to
my stateroom, he says:

“Here—come in here.”