Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 132

“_Here’s_ your opposition line! here’s your two sets o’ heirs to old
Peter Wilks—and you pays your money and you takes your choice!”

CHAPTER XXIX.

They was fetching a very nice-looking old gentleman along, and a
nice-looking younger one, with his right arm in a sling. And, my souls,
how the people yelled and laughed, and kept it up. But I didn’t see no
joke about it, and I judged it would strain the duke and the king some
to see any. I reckoned they’d turn pale. But no, nary a pale did _they_
turn. The duke he never let on he suspicioned what was up, but just
went a goo-gooing around, happy and satisfied, like a jug that’s
googling out buttermilk; and as for the king, he just gazed and gazed
down sorrowful on them new-comers like it give him the stomach-ache in
his very heart to think there could be such frauds and rascals in the
world. Oh, he done it admirable. Lots of the principal people gethered
around the king, to let him see they was on his side. That old
gentleman that had just come looked all puzzled to death. Pretty soon
he begun to speak, and I see straight off he pronounced _like_ an
Englishman—not the king’s way, though the king’s _was_ pretty good for
an imitation. I can’t give the old gent’s words, nor I can’t imitate
him; but he turned around to the crowd, and says, about like this:

“This is a surprise to me which I wasn’t looking for; and I’ll
acknowledge, candid and frank, I ain’t very well fixed to meet it and
answer it; for my brother and me has had misfortunes; he’s broke his
arm, and our baggage got put off at a town above here last night in the
night by a mistake. I am Peter Wilks’ brother Harvey, and this is his
brother William, which can’t hear nor speak—and can’t even make signs
to amount to much, now’t he’s only got one hand to work them with. We
are who we say we are; and in a day or two, when I get the baggage, I
can prove it. But up till then I won’t say nothing more, but go to the
hotel and wait.”

So him and the new dummy started off; and the king he laughs, and
blethers out:

“Broke his arm—_very_ likely, _ain’t_ it?—and very convenient, too, for
a fraud that’s got to make signs, and ain’t learnt how. Lost their
baggage! That’s _mighty_ good!—and mighty ingenious—under the
_circumstances!_”

So he laughed again; and so did everybody else, except three or four,
or maybe half a dozen. One of these was that doctor; another one was a
sharp-looking gentleman, with a carpet-bag of the old-fashioned kind
made out of carpet-stuff, that had just come off of the steamboat and
was talking to him in a low voice, and glancing towards the king now
and then and nodding their heads—it was Levi Bell, the lawyer that was
gone up to Louisville; and another one was a big rough husky that come
along and listened to all the old gentleman said, and was listening to
the king now. And when the king got done this husky up and says: