Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 179

“All right, then, I’ll do it; but I could carry it just as handy in my
own togs.”

“You wouldn’t look like a servant-girl _then_, would you?”

“No, but there won’t be nobody to see what I look like, _anyway_.”

“That ain’t got nothing to do with it. The thing for us to do is just
to do our _duty_, and not worry about whether anybody _sees_ us do it
or not. Hain’t you got no principle at all?”

“All right, I ain’t saying nothing; I’m the servant-girl. Who’s Jim’s
mother?”

“I’m his mother. I’ll hook a gown from Aunt Sally.”

“Well, then, you’ll have to stay in the cabin when me and Jim leaves.”

“Not much. I’ll stuff Jim’s clothes full of straw and lay it on his bed
to represent his mother in disguise, and Jim ’ll take the nigger
woman’s gown off of me and wear it, and we’ll all evade together. When
a prisoner of style escapes it’s called an evasion. It’s always called
so when a king escapes, f’rinstance. And the same with a king’s son; it
don’t make no difference whether he’s a natural one or an unnatural
one.”

So Tom he wrote the nonnamous letter, and I smouched the yaller wench’s
frock that night, and put it on, and shoved it under the front door,
the way Tom told me to. It said:

_Beware. Trouble is brewing. Keep a sharp lookout._ UNKNOWN FRIEND.

Next night we stuck a picture, which Tom drawed in blood, of a skull
and crossbones on the front door; and next night another one of a
coffin on the back door. I never see a family in such a sweat. They
couldn’t a been worse scared if the place had a been full of ghosts
laying for them behind everything and under the beds and shivering
through the air. If a door banged, Aunt Sally she jumped and said
“ouch!” if anything fell, she jumped and said “ouch!” if you happened
to touch her, when she warn’t noticing, she done the same; she couldn’t
face noway and be satisfied, because she allowed there was something
behind her every time—so she was always a-whirling around sudden, and
saying “ouch,” and before she’d got two-thirds around she’d whirl back
again, and say it again; and she was afraid to go to bed, but she
dasn’t set up. So the thing was working very well, Tom said; he said he
never see a thing work more satisfactory. He said it showed it was done
right.

So he said, now for the grand bulge! So the very next morning at the
streak of dawn we got another letter ready, and was wondering what we
better do with it, because we heard them say at supper they was going
to have a nigger on watch at both doors all night. Tom he went down the
lightning-rod to spy around; and the nigger at the back door was
asleep, and he stuck it in the back of his neck and come back. This
letter said: