Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 107

CHAPTER XXIV.

Next day, towards night, we laid up under a little willow tow-head out
in the middle, where there was a village on each side of the river, and
the duke and the king begun to lay out a plan for working them towns.
Jim he spoke to the duke, and said he hoped it wouldn’t take but a few
hours, because it got mighty heavy and tiresome to him when he had to
lay all day in the wigwam tied with the rope. You see, when we left him
all alone we had to tie him, because if anybody happened on to him all
by himself and not tied it wouldn’t look much like he was a runaway
nigger, you know. So the duke said it _was_ kind of hard to have to lay
roped all day, and he’d cipher out some way to get around it.

He was uncommon bright, the duke was, and he soon struck it. He dressed
Jim up in King Lear’s outfit—it was a long curtain-calico gown, and a
white horse-hair wig and whiskers; and then he took his theater paint
and painted Jim’s face and hands and ears and neck all over a dead,
dull, solid blue, like a man that’s been drownded nine days. Blamed if
he warn’t the horriblest looking outrage I ever see. Then the duke took
and wrote out a sign on a shingle so:

_Sick Arab—but harmless when not out of his head._

And he nailed that shingle to a lath, and stood the lath up four or
five foot in front of the wigwam. Jim was satisfied. He said it was a
sight better than lying tied a couple of years every day, and trembling
all over every time there was a sound. The duke told him to make
himself free and easy, and if anybody ever come meddling around, he
must hop out of the wigwam, and carry on a little, and fetch a howl or
two like a wild beast, and he reckoned they would light out and leave
him alone. Which was sound enough judgment; but you take the average
man, and he wouldn’t wait for him to howl. Why, he didn’t only look
like he was dead, he looked considerable more than that.

These rapscallions wanted to try the Nonesuch again, because there was
so much money in it, but they judged it wouldn’t be safe, because maybe
the news might a worked along down by this time. They couldn’t hit no
project that suited exactly; so at last the duke said he reckoned he’d
lay off and work his brains an hour or two and see if he couldn’t put
up something on the Arkansaw village; and the king he allowed he would
drop over to t’other village without any plan, but just trust in
Providence to lead him the profitable way—meaning the devil, I reckon.
We had all bought store clothes where we stopped last; and now the king
put his’n on, and he told me to put mine on. I done it, of course. The
king’s duds was all black, and he did look real swell and starchy. I
never knowed how clothes could change a body before. Why, before, he
looked like the orneriest old rip that ever was; but now, when he’d
take off his new white beaver and make a bow and do a smile, he looked
that grand and good and pious that you’d say he had walked right out of
the ark, and maybe was old Leviticus himself. Jim cleaned up the canoe,
and I got my paddle ready. There was a big steamboat laying at the
shore away up under the point, about three mile above the town—been
there a couple of hours, taking on freight. Says the king: