Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 183

“Who’s that? Answer, or I’ll shoot!”

But we didn’t answer; we just unfurled our heels and shoved. Then there
was a rush, and a _bang, bang, bang!_ and the bullets fairly whizzed
around us! We heard them sing out:

“Here they are! They’ve broke for the river! After ’em, boys, and turn
loose the dogs!”

So here they come, full tilt. We could hear them because they wore
boots and yelled, but we didn’t wear no boots and didn’t yell. We was
in the path to the mill; and when they got pretty close on to us we
dodged into the bush and let them go by, and then dropped in behind
them. They’d had all the dogs shut up, so they wouldn’t scare off the
robbers; but by this time somebody had let them loose, and here they
come, making powwow enough for a million; but they was our dogs; so we
stopped in our tracks till they catched up; and when they see it warn’t
nobody but us, and no excitement to offer them, they only just said
howdy, and tore right ahead towards the shouting and clattering; and
then we up-steam again, and whizzed along after them till we was nearly
to the mill, and then struck up through the bush to where my canoe was
tied, and hopped in and pulled for dear life towards the middle of the
river, but didn’t make no more noise than we was obleeged to. Then we
struck out, easy and comfortable, for the island where my raft was; and
we could hear them yelling and barking at each other all up and down
the bank, till we was so far away the sounds got dim and died out. And
when we stepped onto the raft I says:

“_Now_, old Jim, you’re a free man _again_, and I bet you won’t ever be
a slave no more.”

“En a mighty good job it wuz, too, Huck. It ’uz planned beautiful, en
it ’uz _done_ beautiful; en dey ain’t _nobody_ kin git up a plan dat’s
mo’ mixed-up en splendid den what dat one wuz.”

We was all glad as we could be, but Tom was the gladdest of all because
he had a bullet in the calf of his leg.

When me and Jim heard that we didn’t feel so brash as what we did
before. It was hurting him considerable, and bleeding; so we laid him
in the wigwam and tore up one of the duke’s shirts for to bandage him,
but he says:

“Gimme the rags; I can do it myself. Don’t stop now; don’t fool around
here, and the evasion booming along so handsome; man the sweeps, and
set her loose! Boys, we done it elegant!—’deed we did. I wish _we’d_ a
had the handling of Louis XVI., there wouldn’t a been no ‘Son of Saint
Louis, ascend to heaven!’ wrote down in _his_ biography; no, sir, we’d
a whooped him over the _border_—that’s what we’d a done with _him_—and
done it just as slick as nothing at all, too. Man the sweeps—man the
sweeps!”