Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 85

The other fellow was about thirty, and dressed about as ornery. After
breakfast we all laid off and talked, and the first thing that come out
was that these chaps didn’t know one another.

“What got you into trouble?” says the baldhead to t’other chap.

“Well, I’d been selling an article to take the tartar off the teeth—and
it does take it off, too, and generly the enamel along with it—but I
stayed about one night longer than I ought to, and was just in the act
of sliding out when I ran across you on the trail this side of town,
and you told me they were coming, and begged me to help you to get off.
So I told you I was expecting trouble myself, and would scatter out
_with_ you. That’s the whole yarn—what’s yourn?

“Well, I’d ben a-runnin’ a little temperance revival thar, ’bout a
week, and was the pet of the women folks, big and little, for I was
makin’ it mighty warm for the rummies, I _tell_ you, and takin’ as much
as five or six dollars a night—ten cents a head, children and niggers
free—and business a-growin’ all the time, when somehow or another a
little report got around last night that I had a way of puttin’ in my
time with a private jug on the sly. A nigger rousted me out this
mornin’, and told me the people was getherin’ on the quiet with their
dogs and horses, and they’d be along pretty soon and give me ’bout half
an hour’s start, and then run me down if they could; and if they got me
they’d tar and feather me and ride me on a rail, sure. I didn’t wait
for no breakfast—I warn’t hungry.”

“Old man,” said the young one, “I reckon we might double-team it
together; what do you think?”

“I ain’t undisposed. What’s your line—mainly?”

“Jour printer by trade; do a little in patent medicines;
theater-actor—tragedy, you know; take a turn to mesmerism and
phrenology when there’s a chance; teach singing-geography school for a
change; sling a lecture sometimes—oh, I do lots of things—most anything
that comes handy, so it ain’t work. What’s your lay?”

“I’ve done considerble in the doctoring way in my time. Layin’ on o’
hands is my best holt—for cancer and paralysis, and sich things; and I
k’n tell a fortune pretty good when I’ve got somebody along to find out
the facts for me. Preachin’s my line, too, and workin’ camp-meetin’s,
and missionaryin’ around.”

Nobody never said anything for a while; then the young man hove a sigh
and says:

“Alas!”

“What ’re you alassin’ about?” says the baldhead.

“To think I should have lived to be leading such a life, and be
degraded down into such company.” And he begun to wipe the corner of
his eye with a rag.

“Dern your skin, ain’t the company good enough for you?” says the
baldhead, pretty pert and uppish.

“Yes, it _is_ good enough for me; it’s as good as I deserve; for who
fetched me so low when I was so high? _I_ did myself. I don’t blame
_you_, gentlemen—far from it; I don’t blame anybody. I deserve it all.
Let the cold world do its worst; one thing I know—there’s a grave
somewhere for me. The world may go on just as it’s always done, and
take everything from me—loved ones, property, everything; but it can’t
take that. Some day I’ll lie down in it and forget it all, and my poor
broken heart will be at rest.” He went on a-wiping.