Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 176

“Well, you try it, anyway. Some other prisoners has done it.”

“One er dem big cat-tail-lookin’ mullen-stalks would grow in heah, Mars
Tom, I reck’n, but she wouldn’t be wuth half de trouble she’d coss.”

“Don’t you believe it. We’ll fetch you a little one and you plant it in
the corner over there, and raise it. And don’t call it mullen, call it
Pitchiola—that’s its right name when it’s in a prison. And you want to
water it with your tears.”

“Why, I got plenty spring water, Mars Tom.”

“You don’t _want_ spring water; you want to water it with your tears.
It’s the way they always do.”

“Why, Mars Tom, I lay I kin raise one er dem mullen-stalks twyste wid
spring water whiles another man’s a _start’n_ one wid tears.”

“That ain’t the idea. You _got_ to do it with tears.”

“She’ll die on my han’s, Mars Tom, she sholy will; kase I doan’ skasely
ever cry.”

So Tom was stumped. But he studied it over, and then said Jim would
have to worry along the best he could with an onion. He promised he
would go to the nigger cabins and drop one, private, in Jim’s
coffee-pot, in the morning. Jim said he would “jis’ ’s soon have
tobacker in his coffee;” and found so much fault with it, and with the
work and bother of raising the mullen, and jews-harping the rats, and
petting and flattering up the snakes and spiders and things, on top of
all the other work he had to do on pens, and inscriptions, and
journals, and things, which made it more trouble and worry and
responsibility to be a prisoner than anything he ever undertook, that
Tom most lost all patience with him; and said he was just loadened down
with more gaudier chances than a prisoner ever had in the world to make
a name for himself, and yet he didn’t know enough to appreciate them,
and they was just about wasted on him. So Jim he was sorry, and said he
wouldn’t behave so no more, and then me and Tom shoved for bed.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

In the morning we went up to the village and bought a wire rat-trap and
fetched it down, and unstopped the best rat-hole, and in about an hour
we had fifteen of the bulliest kind of ones; and then we took it and
put it in a safe place under Aunt Sally’s bed. But while we was gone
for spiders little Thomas Franklin Benjamin Jefferson Elexander Phelps
found it there, and opened the door of it to see if the rats would come
out, and they did; and Aunt Sally she come in, and when we got back she
was a-standing on top of the bed raising Cain, and the rats was doing
what they could to keep off the dull times for her. So she took and
dusted us both with the hickry, and we was as much as two hours
catching another fifteen or sixteen, drat that meddlesome cub, and they
warn’t the likeliest, nuther, because the first haul was the pick of
the flock. I never see a likelier lot of rats than what that first haul
was.