Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 40

Next morning I said it was getting slow and dull, and I wanted to get a
stirring up some way. I said I reckoned I would slip over the river and
find out what was going on. Jim liked that notion; but he said I must
go in the dark and look sharp. Then he studied it over and said,
couldn’t I put on some of them old things and dress up like a girl?
That was a good notion, too. So we shortened up one of the calico
gowns, and I turned up my trouser-legs to my knees and got into it. Jim
hitched it behind with the hooks, and it was a fair fit. I put on the
sun-bonnet and tied it under my chin, and then for a body to look in
and see my face was like looking down a joint of stove-pipe. Jim said
nobody would know me, even in the daytime, hardly. I practiced around
all day to get the hang of the things, and by-and-by I could do pretty
well in them, only Jim said I didn’t walk like a girl; and he said I
must quit pulling up my gown to get at my britches-pocket. I took
notice, and done better.

I started up the Illinois shore in the canoe just after dark.

I started across to the town from a little below the ferry-landing, and
the drift of the current fetched me in at the bottom of the town. I
tied up and started along the bank. There was a light burning in a
little shanty that hadn’t been lived in for a long time, and I wondered
who had took up quarters there. I slipped up and peeped in at the
window. There was a woman about forty year old in there knitting by a
candle that was on a pine table. I didn’t know her face; she was a
stranger, for you couldn’t start a face in that town that I didn’t
know. Now this was lucky, because I was weakening; I was getting afraid
I had come; people might know my voice and find me out. But if this
woman had been in such a little town two days she could tell me all I
wanted to know; so I knocked at the door, and made up my mind I
wouldn’t forget I was a girl.

CHAPTER XI.

“Come in,” says the woman, and I did. She says: “Take a cheer.”

I done it. She looked me all over with her little shiny eyes, and says:

“What might your name be?”

“Sarah Williams.”

“Where ’bouts do you live? In this neighborhood?”

“No’m. In Hookerville, seven mile below. I’ve walked all the way and
I’m all tired out.”

“Hungry, too, I reckon. I’ll find you something.”

“No’m, I ain’t hungry. I was so hungry I had to stop two miles below
here at a farm; so I ain’t hungry no more. It’s what makes me so late.
My mother’s down sick, and out of money and everything, and I come to
tell my uncle Abner Moore. He lives at the upper end of the town, she
says. I hain’t ever been here before. Do you know him?”