Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 184

But me and Jim was consulting—and thinking. And after we’d thought a
minute, I says:

“Say it, Jim.”

So he says:

“Well, den, dis is de way it look to me, Huck. Ef it wuz _him_ dat ’uz
bein’ sot free, en one er de boys wuz to git shot, would he say, ‘Go on
en save me, nemmine ’bout a doctor f’r to save dis one?’ Is dat like
Mars Tom Sawyer? Would he say dat? You _bet_ he wouldn’t! _Well_, den,
is _Jim_ gywne to say it? No, sah—I doan’ budge a step out’n dis place
’dout a _doctor;_ not if it’s forty year!”

I knowed he was white inside, and I reckoned he’d say what he did
say—so it was all right now, and I told Tom I was a-going for a doctor.
He raised considerable row about it, but me and Jim stuck to it and
wouldn’t budge; so he was for crawling out and setting the raft loose
himself; but we wouldn’t let him. Then he give us a piece of his mind,
but it didn’t do no good.

So when he sees me getting the canoe ready, he says:

“Well, then, if you’re bound to go, I’ll tell you the way to do when
you get to the village. Shut the door and blindfold the doctor tight
and fast, and make him swear to be silent as the grave, and put a purse
full of gold in his hand, and then take and lead him all around the
back alleys and everywheres in the dark, and then fetch him here in the
canoe, in a roundabout way amongst the islands, and search him and take
his chalk away from him, and don’t give it back to him till you get him
back to the village, or else he will chalk this raft so he can find it
again. It’s the way they all do.”

So I said I would, and left, and Jim was to hide in the woods when he
see the doctor coming till he was gone again.

CHAPTER XLI.

The doctor was an old man; a very nice, kind-looking old man when I got
him up. I told him me and my brother was over on Spanish Island hunting
yesterday afternoon, and camped on a piece of a raft we found, and
about midnight he must a kicked his gun in his dreams, for it went off
and shot him in the leg, and we wanted him to go over there and fix it
and not say nothing about it, nor let anybody know, because we wanted
to come home this evening and surprise the folks.

“Who is your folks?” he says.

“The Phelpses, down yonder.”

“Oh,” he says. And after a minute, he says:

“How’d you say he got shot?”

“He had a dream,” I says, “and it shot him.”

“Singular dream,” he says.

So he lit up his lantern, and got his saddle-bags, and we started. But
when he sees the canoe he didn’t like the look of her—said she was big
enough for one, but didn’t look pretty safe for two. I says: