Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 138

The minute I was far enough above the town to see I could make the
tow-head, I begun to look sharp for a boat to borrow, and the first time
the lightning showed me one that wasn’t chained I snatched it and
shoved. It was a canoe, and warn’t fastened with nothing but a rope.
The tow-head was a rattling big distance off, away out there in the
middle of the river, but I didn’t lose no time; and when I struck the
raft at last I was so fagged I would a just laid down to blow and gasp
if I could afforded it. But I didn’t. As I sprung aboard I sung out:

“Out with you, Jim, and set her loose! Glory be to goodness, we’re shut
of them!”

Jim lit out, and was a-coming for me with both arms spread, he was so
full of joy; but when I glimpsed him in the lightning my heart shot up
in my mouth and I went overboard backwards; for I forgot he was old
King Lear and a drownded A-rab all in one, and it most scared the
livers and lights out of me. But Jim fished me out, and was going to
hug me and bless me, and so on, he was so glad I was back and we was
shut of the king and the duke, but I says:

“Not now; have it for breakfast, have it for breakfast! Cut loose and
let her slide!”

So in two seconds away we went a-sliding down the river, and it _did_
seem so good to be free again and all by ourselves on the big river,
and nobody to bother us. I had to skip around a bit, and jump up and
crack my heels a few times—I couldn’t help it; but about the third
crack I noticed a sound that I knowed mighty well, and held my breath
and listened and waited; and sure enough, when the next flash busted
out over the water, here they come!—and just a-laying to their oars and
making their skiff hum! It was the king and the duke.

So I wilted right down on to the planks then, and give up; and it was
all I could do to keep from crying.

CHAPTER XXX.

When they got aboard the king went for me, and shook me by the collar,
and says:

“Tryin’ to give us the slip, was ye, you pup! Tired of our company,
hey?”

I says:

“No, your majesty, we warn’t—_please_ don’t, your majesty!”

“Quick, then, and tell us what _was_ your idea, or I’ll shake the
insides out o’ you!”

“Honest, I’ll tell you everything just as it happened, your majesty.
The man that had a-holt of me was very good to me, and kept saying he
had a boy about as big as me that died last year, and he was sorry to
see a boy in such a dangerous fix; and when they was all took by
surprise by finding the gold, and made a rush for the coffin, he lets
go of me and whispers, ‘Heel it now, or they’ll hang ye, sure!’ and I
lit out. It didn’t seem no good for _me_ to stay—_I_ couldn’t do
nothing, and I didn’t want to be hung if I could get away. So I never
stopped running till I found the canoe; and when I got here I told Jim
to hurry, or they’d catch me and hang me yet, and said I was afeard you
and the duke wasn’t alive now, and I was awful sorry, and so was Jim,
and was awful glad when we see you coming; you may ask Jim if I
didn’t.”