Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 170

There was a noble good lot of them down cellar, and it took us a whole
hour, but we done the job tight and good and shipshape. Then we heard
steps on the stairs, and blowed out our light and hid; and here comes
the old man, with a candle in one hand and a bundle of stuff in
t’other, looking as absent-minded as year before last. He went a
mooning around, first to one rat-hole and then another, till he’d been
to them all. Then he stood about five minutes, picking tallow-drip off
of his candle and thinking. Then he turns off slow and dreamy towards
the stairs, saying:

“Well, for the life of me I can’t remember when I done it. I could show
her now that I warn’t to blame on account of the rats. But never
mind—let it go. I reckon it wouldn’t do no good.”

And so he went on a-mumbling up stairs, and then we left. He was a
mighty nice old man. And always is.

Tom was a good deal bothered about what to do for a spoon, but he said
we’d got to have it; so he took a think. When he had ciphered it out he
told me how we was to do; then we went and waited around the
spoon-basket till we see Aunt Sally coming, and then Tom went to
counting the spoons and laying them out to one side, and I slid one of
them up my sleeve, and Tom says:

“Why, Aunt Sally, there ain’t but nine spoons _yet_.”

She says:

“Go ’long to your play, and don’t bother me. I know better, I counted
’m myself.”

“Well, I’ve counted them twice, Aunty, and _I_ can’t make but nine.”

She looked out of all patience, but of course she come to count—anybody
would.

“I declare to gracious ther’ _ain’t_ but nine!” she says. “Why, what in
the world—plague _take_ the things, I’ll count ’m again.”

So I slipped back the one I had, and when she got done counting, she
says:

“Hang the troublesome rubbage, ther’s _ten_ now!” and she looked huffy
and bothered both. But Tom says:

“Why, Aunty, _I_ don’t think there’s ten.”

“You numskull, didn’t you see me _count_ ’m?”

“I know, but—”

“Well, I’ll count ’m _again_.”

So I smouched one, and they come out nine, same as the other time.
Well, she _was_ in a tearing way—just a-trembling all over, she was so
mad. But she counted and counted till she got that addled she’d start
to count in the _basket_ for a spoon sometimes; and so, three times
they come out right, and three times they come out wrong. Then she
grabbed up the basket and slammed it across the house and knocked the
cat galley-west; and she said cle’r out and let her have some peace,
and if we come bothering around her again betwixt that and dinner she’d
skin us. So we had the odd spoon, and dropped it in her apron-pocket
whilst she was a-giving us our sailing orders, and Jim got it all
right, along with her shingle nail, before noon. We was very well
satisfied with this business, and Tom allowed it was worth twice the
trouble it took, because he said _now_ she couldn’t ever count them
spoons twice alike again to save her life; and wouldn’t believe she’d
counted them right if she _did;_ and said that after she’d about
counted her head off for the next three days he judged she’d give it up
and offer to kill anybody that wanted her to ever count them any more.