Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 83

A little smoke couldn’t be noticed now, so we would take some fish off
of the lines and cook up a hot breakfast. And afterwards we would watch
the lonesomeness of the river, and kind of lazy along, and by-and-by
lazy off to sleep. Wake up by-and-by, and look to see what done it, and
maybe see a steamboat coughing along up-stream, so far off towards the
other side you couldn’t tell nothing about her only whether she was a
stern-wheel or side-wheel; then for about an hour there wouldn’t be
nothing to hear nor nothing to see—just solid lonesomeness. Next you’d
see a raft sliding by, away off yonder, and maybe a galoot on it
chopping, because they’re most always doing it on a raft; you’d see the
axe flash and come down—you don’t hear nothing; you see that axe go up
again, and by the time it’s above the man’s head then you hear the
_k’chunk!_—it had took all that time to come over the water. So we
would put in the day, lazying around, listening to the stillness. Once
there was a thick fog, and the rafts and things that went by was
beating tin pans so the steamboats wouldn’t run over them. A scow or a
raft went by so close we could hear them talking and cussing and
laughing—heard them plain; but we couldn’t see no sign of them; it made
you feel crawly; it was like spirits carrying on that way in the air.
Jim said he believed it was spirits; but I says:

“No; spirits wouldn’t say, ‘Dern the dern fog.’”

Soon as it was night out we shoved; when we got her out to about the
middle we let her alone, and let her float wherever the current wanted
her to; then we lit the pipes, and dangled our legs in the water, and
talked about all kinds of things—we was always naked, day and night,
whenever the mosquitoes would let us—the new clothes Buck’s folks made
for me was too good to be comfortable, and besides I didn’t go much on
clothes, nohow.

Sometimes we’d have that whole river all to ourselves for the longest
time. Yonder was the banks and the islands, across the water; and maybe
a spark—which was a candle in a cabin window; and sometimes on the
water you could see a spark or two—on a raft or a scow, you know; and
maybe you could hear a fiddle or a song coming over from one of them
crafts. It’s lovely to live on a raft. We had the sky up there, all
speckled with stars, and we used to lay on our backs and look up at
them, and discuss about whether they was made or only just happened.
Jim he allowed they was made, but I allowed they happened; I judged it
would have took too long to _make_ so many. Jim said the moon could a
_laid_ them; well, that looked kind of reasonable, so I didn’t say
nothing against it, because I’ve seen a frog lay most as many, so of
course it could be done. We used to watch the stars that fell, too, and
see them streak down. Jim allowed they’d got spoiled and was hove out
of the nest.