Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 51

“Oh, my lordy, lordy! _Raf’?_ Dey ain’ no raf’ no mo’; she done broke
loose en gone I—en here we is!”

CHAPTER XIII.

Well, I catched my breath and most fainted. Shut up on a wreck with
such a gang as that! But it warn’t no time to be sentimentering. We’d
_got_ to find that boat now—had to have it for ourselves. So we went
a-quaking and shaking down the stabboard side, and slow work it was,
too—seemed a week before we got to the stern. No sign of a boat. Jim
said he didn’t believe he could go any further—so scared he hadn’t
hardly any strength left, he said. But I said, come on, if we get left
on this wreck we are in a fix, sure. So on we prowled again. We struck
for the stern of the texas, and found it, and then scrabbled along
forwards on the skylight, hanging on from shutter to shutter, for the
edge of the skylight was in the water. When we got pretty close to the
cross-hall door, there was the skiff, sure enough! I could just barely
see her. I felt ever so thankful. In another second I would a been
aboard of her, but just then the door opened. One of the men stuck his
head out only about a couple of foot from me, and I thought I was gone;
but he jerked it in again, and says:

“Heave that blame lantern out o’ sight, Bill!”

He flung a bag of something into the boat, and then got in himself and
set down. It was Packard. Then Bill _he_ come out and got in. Packard
says, in a low voice:

“All ready—shove off!”

I couldn’t hardly hang on to the shutters, I was so weak. But Bill
says:

“Hold on—’d you go through him?”

“No. Didn’t you?”

“No. So he’s got his share o’ the cash yet.”

“Well, then, come along; no use to take truck and leave money.”

“Say, won’t he suspicion what we’re up to?”

“Maybe he won’t. But we got to have it anyway. Come along.”

So they got out and went in.

The door slammed to because it was on the careened side; and in a half
second I was in the boat, and Jim come tumbling after me. I out with my
knife and cut the rope, and away we went!

We didn’t touch an oar, and we didn’t speak nor whisper, nor hardly
even breathe. We went gliding swift along, dead silent, past the tip of
the paddle-box, and past the stern; then in a second or two more we was
a hundred yards below the wreck, and the darkness soaked her up, every
last sign of her, and we was safe, and knowed it.

When we was three or four hundred yards down-stream we see the lantern
show like a little spark at the texas door for a second, and we knowed
by that that the rascals had missed their boat, and was beginning to
understand that they was in just as much trouble now as Jim Turner was.