Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 123

They buried him, and we come back home, and I went to watching faces
again—I couldn’t help it, and I couldn’t rest easy. But nothing come of
it; the faces didn’t tell me nothing.

The king he visited around in the evening, and sweetened everybody up,
and made himself ever so friendly; and he give out the idea that his
congregation over in England would be in a sweat about him, so he must
hurry and settle up the estate right away and leave for home. He was
very sorry he was so pushed, and so was everybody; they wished he could
stay longer, but they said they could see it couldn’t be done. And he
said of course him and William would take the girls home with them; and
that pleased everybody too, because then the girls would be well fixed
and amongst their own relations; and it pleased the girls, too—tickled
them so they clean forgot they ever had a trouble in the world; and
told him to sell out as quick as he wanted to, they would be ready.
Them poor things was that glad and happy it made my heart ache to see
them getting fooled and lied to so, but I didn’t see no safe way for me
to chip in and change the general tune.

Well, blamed if the king didn’t bill the house and the niggers and all
the property for auction straight off—sale two days after the funeral;
but anybody could buy private beforehand if they wanted to.

So the next day after the funeral, along about noon-time, the girls’
joy got the first jolt. A couple of nigger traders come along, and the
king sold them the niggers reasonable, for three-day drafts as they
called it, and away they went, the two sons up the river to Memphis,
and their mother down the river to Orleans. I thought them poor girls
and them niggers would break their hearts for grief; they cried around
each other, and took on so it most made me down sick to see it. The
girls said they hadn’t ever dreamed of seeing the family separated or
sold away from the town. I can’t ever get it out of my memory, the
sight of them poor miserable girls and niggers hanging around each
other’s necks and crying; and I reckon I couldn’t a stood it all, but
would a had to bust out and tell on our gang if I hadn’t knowed the
sale warn’t no account and the niggers would be back home in a week or
two.

The thing made a big stir in the town, too, and a good many come out
flatfooted and said it was scandalous to separate the mother and the
children that way. It injured the frauds some; but the old fool he
bulled right along, spite of all the duke could say or do, and I tell
you the duke was powerful uneasy.

Next day was auction day. About broad day in the morning the king and
the duke come up in the garret and woke me up, and I see by their look
that there was trouble. The king says: