Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 111

CHAPTER XXV.

The news was all over town in two minutes, and you could see the people
tearing down on the run from every which way, some of them putting on
their coats as they come. Pretty soon we was in the middle of a crowd,
and the noise of the tramping was like a soldier march. The windows and
dooryards was full; and every minute somebody would say, over a fence:

“Is it _them?_”

And somebody trotting along with the gang would answer back and say:

“You bet it is.”

When we got to the house the street in front of it was packed, and the
three girls was standing in the door. Mary Jane _was_ red-headed, but
that don’t make no difference, she was most awful beautiful, and her
face and her eyes was all lit up like glory, she was so glad her uncles
was come. The king he spread his arms, and Mary Jane she jumped for
them, and the hare-lip jumped for the duke, and there they _had_ it!
Everybody most, leastways women, cried for joy to see them meet again
at last and have such good times.

Then the king he hunched the duke private—I see him do it—and then he
looked around and see the coffin, over in the corner on two chairs; so
then him and the duke, with a hand across each other’s shoulder, and
t’other hand to their eyes, walked slow and solemn over there,
everybody dropping back to give them room, and all the talk and noise
stopping, people saying “Sh!” and all the men taking their hats off and
drooping their heads, so you could a heard a pin fall. And when they
got there they bent over and looked in the coffin, and took one sight,
and then they bust out a-crying so you could a heard them to Orleans,
most; and then they put their arms around each other’s necks, and hung
their chins over each other’s shoulders; and then for three minutes, or
maybe four, I never see two men leak the way they done. And, mind you,
everybody was doing the same; and the place was that damp I never see
anything like it. Then one of them got on one side of the coffin, and
t’other on t’other side, and they kneeled down and rested their
foreheads on the coffin, and let on to pray all to themselves. Well,
when it come to that it worked the crowd like you never see anything
like it, and everybody broke down and went to sobbing right out
loud—the poor girls, too; and every woman, nearly, went up to the
girls, without saying a word, and kissed them, solemn, on the forehead,
and then put their hand on their head, and looked up towards the sky,
with the tears running down, and then busted out and went off sobbing
and swabbing, and give the next woman a show. I never see anything so
disgusting.

Well, by-and-by the king he gets up and comes forward a little, and
works himself up and slobbers out a speech, all full of tears and
flapdoodle about its being a sore trial for him and his poor brother to
lose the diseased, and to miss seeing diseased alive after the long
journey of four thousand mile, but it’s a trial that’s sweetened and
sanctified to us by this dear sympathy and these holy tears, and so he
thanks them out of his heart and out of his brother’s heart, because
out of their mouths they can’t, words being too weak and cold, and all
that kind of rot and slush, till it was just sickening; and then he
blubbers out a pious goody-goody Amen, and turns himself loose and goes
to crying fit to bust.