Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 180

Don’t betray me, I wish to be your friend. There is a desprate gang of
cutthroats from over in the Indian Territory going to steal your
runaway nigger to-night, and they have been trying to scare you so as
you will stay in the house and not bother them. I am one of the gang,
but have got religgion and wish to quit it and lead an honest life
again, and will betray the helish design. They will sneak down from
northards, along the fence, at midnight exact, with a false key, and go
in the nigger’s cabin to get him. I am to be off a piece and blow a tin
horn if I see any danger; but stead of that I will BA like a sheep
soon as they get in and not blow at all; then whilst they are getting
his chains loose, you slip there and lock them in, and can kill them at
your leasure. Don’t do anything but just the way I am telling you, if
you do they will suspicion something and raise whoop-jamboreehoo. I do
not wish any reward but to know I have done the right thing.

UNKNOWN FRIEND

CHAPTER XL.

We was feeling pretty good after breakfast, and took my canoe and went
over the river a-fishing, with a lunch, and had a good time, and took a
look at the raft and found her all right, and got home late to supper,
and found them in such a sweat and worry they didn’t know which end
they was standing on, and made us go right off to bed the minute we was
done supper, and wouldn’t tell us what the trouble was, and never let
on a word about the new letter, but didn’t need to, because we knowed
as much about it as anybody did, and as soon as we was half up stairs
and her back was turned we slid for the cellar cupboard and loaded up a
good lunch and took it up to our room and went to bed, and got up about
half-past eleven, and Tom put on Aunt Sally’s dress that he stole and
was going to start with the lunch, but says:

“Where’s the butter?”

“I laid out a hunk of it,” I says, “on a piece of a corn-pone.”

“Well, you _left_ it laid out, then—it ain’t here.”

“We can get along without it,” I says.

“We can get along _with_ it, too,” he says; “just you slide down cellar
and fetch it. And then mosey right down the lightning-rod and come
along. I’ll go and stuff the straw into Jim’s clothes to represent his
mother in disguise, and be ready to _ba_ like a sheep and shove soon
as you get there.”

So out he went, and down cellar went I. The hunk of butter, big as a
person’s fist, was where I had left it, so I took up the slab of
corn-pone with it on, and blowed out my light, and started up stairs
very stealthy, and got up to the main floor all right, but here comes
Aunt Sally with a candle, and I clapped the truck in my hat, and
clapped my hat on my head, and the next second she see me; and she
says: