Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 115

Well, how they all took on! They crowded around the doctor and tried to
quiet him down, and tried to explain to him and tell him how Harvey ’d
showed in forty ways that he _was_ Harvey, and knowed everybody by
name, and the names of the very dogs, and begged and _begged_ him not
to hurt Harvey’s feelings and the poor girl’s feelings, and all that.
But it warn’t no use; he stormed right along, and said any man that
pretended to be an Englishman and couldn’t imitate the lingo no better
than what he did was a fraud and a liar. The poor girls was hanging to
the king and crying; and all of a sudden the doctor ups and turns on
_them_. He says:

“I was your father’s friend, and I’m your friend; and I warn you _as_ a
friend, and an honest one that wants to protect you and keep you out of
harm and trouble, to turn your backs on that scoundrel and have nothing
to do with him, the ignorant tramp, with his idiotic Greek and Hebrew,
as he calls it. He is the thinnest kind of an impostor—has come here
with a lot of empty names and facts which he picked up somewheres, and
you take them for _proofs_, and are helped to fool yourselves by these
foolish friends here, who ought to know better. Mary Jane Wilks, you
know me for your friend, and for your unselfish friend, too. Now listen
to me; turn this pitiful rascal out—I _beg_ you to do it. Will you?”

Mary Jane straightened herself up, and my, but she was handsome! She
says:

“_Here_ is my answer.” She hove up the bag of money and put it in the
king’s hands, and says, “Take this six thousand dollars, and invest for
me and my sisters any way you want to, and don’t give us no receipt for
it.”

Then she put her arm around the king on one side, and Susan and the
hare-lip done the same on the other. Everybody clapped their hands and
stomped on the floor like a perfect storm, whilst the king held up his
head and smiled proud. The doctor says:

“All right; I wash _my_ hands of the matter. But I warn you all that a
time ’s coming when you’re going to feel sick whenever you think of
this day.” And away he went.

“All right, doctor,” says the king, kinder mocking him; “we’ll try and
get ’em to send for you;” which made them all laugh, and they said it
was a prime good hit.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Well, when they was all gone the king he asks Mary Jane how they was
off for spare rooms, and she said she had one spare room, which would
do for Uncle William, and she’d give her own room to Uncle Harvey,
which was a little bigger, and she would turn into the room with her
sisters and sleep on a cot; and up garret was a little cubby, with a
pallet in it. The king said the cubby would do for his valley—meaning
me.