Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 113

“Oh, _this_ ain’t bully nor noth’n! Oh, no, I reckon not! Why, Bilji,
it beats the Nonesuch, _don’t_ it?”

The duke allowed it did. They pawed the yaller-boys, and sifted them
through their fingers and let them jingle down on the floor; and the
king says:

“It ain’t no use talkin’; bein’ brothers to a rich dead man and
representatives of furrin heirs that’s got left is the line for you and
me, Bilge. Thish yer comes of trust’n to Providence. It’s the best way,
in the long run. I’ve tried ’em all, and ther’ ain’t no better way.”

Most everybody would a been satisfied with the pile, and took it on
trust; but no, they must count it. So they counts it, and it comes out
four hundred and fifteen dollars short. Says the king:

“Dern him, I wonder what he done with that four hundred and fifteen
dollars?”

They worried over that awhile, and ransacked all around for it. Then
the duke says:

“Well, he was a pretty sick man, and likely he made a mistake—I reckon
that’s the way of it. The best way’s to let it go, and keep still about
it. We can spare it.”

“Oh, shucks, yes, we can _spare_ it. I don’t k’yer noth’n ’bout
that—it’s the _count_ I’m thinkin’ about. We want to be awful square
and open and above-board here, you know. We want to lug this h-yer
money up stairs and count it before everybody—then ther’ ain’t noth’n
suspicious. But when the dead man says ther’s six thous’n dollars, you
know, we don’t want to—”

“Hold on,” says the duke. “Le’s make up the deffisit,” and he begun to
haul out yaller-boys out of his pocket.

“It’s a most amaz’n’ good idea, duke—you _have_ got a rattlin’ clever
head on you,” says the king. “Blest if the old Nonesuch ain’t a heppin’
us out agin,” and _he_ begun to haul out yaller-jackets and stack them
up.

It most busted them, but they made up the six thousand clean and clear.

“Say,” says the duke, “I got another idea. Le’s go up stairs and count
this money, and then take and _give it to the girls_.”

“Good land, duke, lemme hug you! It’s the most dazzling idea ’at ever a
man struck. You have cert’nly got the most astonishin’ head I ever see.
Oh, this is the boss dodge, ther’ ain’t no mistake ’bout it. Let ’em
fetch along their suspicions now if they want to—this’ll lay ’em out.”

When we got up-stairs everybody gethered around the table, and the king
he counted it and stacked it up, three hundred dollars in a pile—twenty
elegant little piles. Everybody looked hungry at it, and licked their
chops. Then they raked it into the bag again, and I see the king begin
to swell himself up for another speech. He says:

“Friends all, my poor brother that lays yonder has done generous by
them that’s left behind in the vale of sorrers. He has done generous by
these yer poor little lambs that he loved and sheltered, and that’s
left fatherless and motherless. Yes, and we that knowed him knows that
he would a done _more_ generous by ’em if he hadn’t ben afeard o’
woundin’ his dear William and me. Now, _wouldn’t_ he? Ther’ ain’t no
question ’bout it in _my_ mind. Well, then, what kind o’ brothers would
it be that ’d stand in his way at sech a time? And what kind o’ uncles
would it be that ’d rob—yes, _rob_—sech poor sweet lambs as these ’at
he loved so at sech a time? If I know William—and I _think_ I
do—he—well, I’ll jest ask him.” He turns around and begins to make a
lot of signs to the duke with his hands, and the duke he looks at him
stupid and leather-headed a while; then all of a sudden he seems to
catch his meaning, and jumps for the king, goo-gooing with all his
might for joy, and hugs him about fifteen times before he lets up. Then
the king says, “I knowed it; I reckon _that_’ll convince anybody the
way _he_ feels about it. Here, Mary Jane, Susan, Joanner, take the
money—take it _all_. It’s the gift of him that lays yonder, cold but
joyful.”