Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 165

“Well,” he says, “there’s excuse for picks and letting-on in a case
like this; if it warn’t so, I wouldn’t approve of it, nor I wouldn’t
stand by and see the rules broke—because right is right, and wrong is
wrong, and a body ain’t got no business doing wrong when he ain’t
ignorant and knows better. It might answer for _you_ to dig Jim out
with a pick, _without_ any letting on, because you don’t know no
better; but it wouldn’t for me, because I do know better. Gimme a
case-knife.”

He had his own by him, but I handed him mine. He flung it down, and
says:

“Gimme a _case-knife_.”

I didn’t know just what to do—but then I thought. I scratched around
amongst the old tools, and got a pickaxe and give it to him, and he
took it and went to work, and never said a word.

He was always just that particular. Full of principle.

So then I got a shovel, and then we picked and shoveled, turn about,
and made the fur fly. We stuck to it about a half an hour, which was as
long as we could stand up; but we had a good deal of a hole to show for
it. When I got up stairs I looked out at the window and see Tom doing
his level best with the lightning-rod, but he couldn’t come it, his
hands was so sore. At last he says:

“It ain’t no use, it can’t be done. What you reckon I better do? Can’t
you think of no way?”

“Yes,” I says, “but I reckon it ain’t regular. Come up the stairs, and
let on it’s a lightning-rod.”

So he done it.

Next day Tom stole a pewter spoon and a brass candlestick in the house,
for to make some pens for Jim out of, and six tallow candles; and I
hung around the nigger cabins and laid for a chance, and stole three
tin plates. Tom says it wasn’t enough; but I said nobody wouldn’t ever
see the plates that Jim throwed out, because they’d fall in the
dog-fennel and jimpson weeds under the window-hole—then we could tote
them back and he could use them over again. So Tom was satisfied. Then
he says:

“Now, the thing to study out is, how to get the things to Jim.”

“Take them in through the hole,” I says, “when we get it done.”

He only just looked scornful, and said something about nobody ever
heard of such an idiotic idea, and then he went to studying. By-and-by
he said he had ciphered out two or three ways, but there warn’t no need
to decide on any of them yet. Said we’d got to post Jim first.

That night we went down the lightning-rod a little after ten, and took
one of the candles along, and listened under the window-hole, and heard
Jim snoring; so we pitched it in, and it didn’t wake him. Then we
whirled in with the pick and shovel, and in about two hours and a half
the job was done. We crept in under Jim’s bed and into the cabin, and
pawed around and found the candle and lit it, and stood over Jim
awhile, and found him looking hearty and healthy, and then we woke him
up gentle and gradual. He was so glad to see us he most cried; and
called us honey, and all the pet names he could think of; and was for
having us hunt up a cold-chisel to cut the chain off of his leg with
right away, and clearing out without losing any time. But Tom he showed
him how unregular it would be, and set down and told him all about our
plans, and how we could alter them in a minute any time there was an
alarm; and not to be the least afraid, because we would see he got
away, _sure_. So Jim he said it was all right, and we set there and
talked over old times awhile, and then Tom asked a lot of questions,
and when Jim told him Uncle Silas come in every day or two to pray with
him, and Aunt Sally come in to see if he was comfortable and had plenty
to eat, and both of them was kind as they could be, Tom says: