Title: Huckleberry Finn — Part 50

And in he come, and Bill after him. But before they got in I was up in
the upper berth, cornered, and sorry I come. Then they stood there,
with their hands on the ledge of the berth, and talked. I couldn’t see
them, but I could tell where they was by the whisky they’d been having.
I was glad I didn’t drink whisky; but it wouldn’t made much difference
anyway, because most of the time they couldn’t a treed me because I
didn’t breathe. I was too scared. And, besides, a body _couldn’t_
breathe and hear such talk. They talked low and earnest. Bill wanted to
kill Turner. He says:

“He’s said he’ll tell, and he will. If we was to give both our shares
to him _now_ it wouldn’t make no difference after the row and the way
we’ve served him. Shore’s you’re born, he’ll turn State’s evidence; now
you hear _me_. I’m for putting him out of his troubles.”

“So’m I,” says Packard, very quiet.

“Blame it, I’d sorter begun to think you wasn’t. Well, then, that’s all
right. Le’s go and do it.”

“Hold on a minute; I hain’t had my say yit. You listen to me.
Shooting’s good, but there’s quieter ways if the thing’s _got_ to be
done. But what _I_ say is this: it ain’t good sense to go court’n
around after a halter if you can git at what you’re up to in some way
that’s jist as good and at the same time don’t bring you into no resks.
Ain’t that so?”

“You bet it is. But how you goin’ to manage it this time?”

“Well, my idea is this: we’ll rustle around and gather up whatever
pickins we’ve overlooked in the staterooms, and shove for shore and
hide the truck. Then we’ll wait. Now I say it ain’t a-goin’ to be
more’n two hours befo’ this wrack breaks up and washes off down the
river. See? He’ll be drownded, and won’t have nobody to blame for it
but his own self. I reckon that’s a considerble sight better ’n killin’
of him. I’m unfavorable to killin’ a man as long as you can git aroun’
it; it ain’t good sense, it ain’t good morals. Ain’t I right?”

“Yes, I reck’n you are. But s’pose she _don’t_ break up and wash off?”

“Well, we can wait the two hours anyway and see, can’t we?”

“All right, then; come along.”

So they started, and I lit out, all in a cold sweat, and scrambled
forward. It was dark as pitch there; but I said, in a kind of a coarse
whisper, “Jim!” and he answered up, right at my elbow, with a sort of a
moan, and I says:

“Quick, Jim, it ain’t no time for fooling around and moaning; there’s a
gang of murderers in yonder, and if we don’t hunt up their boat and set
her drifting down the river so these fellows can’t get away from the
wreck there’s one of ’em going to be in a bad fix. But if we find their
boat we can put _all_ of ’em in a bad fix—for the Sheriff ’ll get ’em.
Quick—hurry! I’ll hunt the labboard side, you hunt the stabboard. You
start at the raft, and—”