Title: Moby Dick — Part 9

“The Whale is harpooned to be sure; but bethink you, how you would
  manage a powerful unbroken colt, with the mere appliance of a rope
  tied to the root of his tail.” —_A Chapter on Whaling in Ribs and
  Trucks_.

“On one occasion I saw two of these monsters (whales) probably male
  and female, slowly swimming, one after the other, within less than a
  stone’s throw of the shore” (Terra Del Fuego), “over which the beech
  tree extended its branches.” —_Darwin’s Voyage of a Naturalist_.

“‘Stern all!’ exclaimed the mate, as upon turning his head, he saw
  the distended jaws of a large Sperm Whale close to the head of the
  boat, threatening it with instant destruction;—‘Stern all, for your
  lives!’” —_Wharton the Whale Killer_.

“So be cheery, my lads, let your hearts never fail, While the bold
  harpooneer is striking the whale!” —_Nantucket Song_.

“Oh, the rare old Whale, mid storm and gale In his ocean home will be
  A giant in might, where might is right, And King of the boundless
  sea.” —_Whale Song_.

CHAPTER 1. Loomings.

Call me Ishmael. Some years ago—never mind how long precisely—having
little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me
on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part
of the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and
regulating the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about
the mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever
I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and
bringing up the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever
my hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral
principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and
methodically knocking people’s hats off—then, I account it high time to
get to sea as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball.
With a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I
quietly take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If they
but knew it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other,
cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me.

There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by
wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs—commerce surrounds it with her
surf. Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extreme
downtown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and
cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of
land. Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.

Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears
Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What
do you see?—Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand
thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some
leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some
looking over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in the
rigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward peep. But these
are all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster—tied to
counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks. How then is this? Are
the green fields gone? What do they here?