Title: Pride and Prejudice — Part 170

Elizabeth was at no loss to understand from whence this deference for
her authority proceeded; but it was not in her power to give any
information of so satisfactory a nature as the compliment deserved.

She had never heard of his having had any relations, except a father
and mother, both of whom had been dead many years. It was possible,
however, that some of his companions in the ----shire might be able to
give more information; and though she was not very sanguine in expecting
it, the application was a something to look forward to.

Every day at Longbourn was now a day of anxiety; but the most anxious
part of each was when the post was expected. The arrival of letters was
the first grand object of every morning’s impatience. Through letters,
whatever of good or bad was to be told would be communicated; and every
succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance.

But before they heard again from Mr. Gardiner, a letter arrived for
their father, from a different quarter, from Mr. Collins; which, as Jane
had received directions to open all that came for him in his absence,
she accordingly read; and Elizabeth, who knew what curiosities his
letters always were, looked over her, and read it likewise. It was as
follows:--

/* “My dear Sir, */

“I feel myself called upon, by our relationship, and my situation
     in life, to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now
     suffering under, of which we were yesterday informed by a letter
     from Hertfordshire. Be assured, my dear sir, that Mrs. Collins and
     myself sincerely sympathize with you, and all your respectable
     family, in your present distress, which must be of the bitterest
     kind, because proceeding from a cause which no time can remove. No
     arguments shall be wanting on my part, that can alleviate so severe
     a misfortune; or that may comfort you, under a circumstance that
     must be, of all others, most afflicting to a parent’s mind. The
     death of your daughter would have been a blessing in comparison of
     this. And it is the more to be lamented, because there is reason to
     suppose, as my dear Charlotte informs me, that this licentiousness
     of behaviour in your

[Illustration:

“To whom I have related the affair”

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

daughter has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence; though,
     at the same time, for the consolation of yourself and Mrs. Bennet,
     I am inclined to think that her own disposition must be naturally
     bad, or she could not be guilty of such an enormity, at so early an
     age. Howsoever that may be, you are grievously to be pitied; in
     which opinion I am not only joined by Mrs. Collins, but likewise by
     Lady Catherine and her daughter, to whom I have related the affair.
     They agree with me in apprehending that this false step in one
     daughter will be injurious to the fortunes of all the others: for
     who, as Lady Catherine herself condescendingly says, will connect
     themselves with such a family? And this consideration leads me,
     moreover, to reflect, with augmented satisfaction, on a certain
     event of last November; for had it been otherwise, I must have been
     involved in all your sorrow and disgrace. Let me advise you, then,
     my dear sir, to console yourself as much as possible, to throw off
     your unworthy child from your affection for ever, and leave her to
     reap the fruits of her own heinous offence.