Title: Pride and Prejudice — Part 92

Elizabeth shook her head over this letter. It convinced her that
accident only could discover to Mr. Bingley her sister’s being in town.

Four weeks passed away, and Jane saw nothing of him. She endeavoured to
persuade herself that she did not regret it; but she could no longer be
blind to Miss Bingley’s inattention. After waiting at home every morning
for a fortnight, and inventing every evening a fresh excuse for her, the
visitor did at last appear; but the shortness of her stay, and, yet
more, the alteration of her manner, would allow Jane to deceive herself
no longer. The letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister
will prove what she felt:--

“My dearest Lizzy will, I am sure, be incapable of triumphing in
     her better judgment, at my expense, when I confess myself to have
     been entirely deceived in Miss Bingley’s regard for me. But, my
     dear sister, though the event has proved you right, do not think me
     obstinate if I still assert that, considering what her behaviour
     was, my confidence was as natural as your suspicion. I do not at
     all comprehend her reason for wishing to be intimate with me; but,
     if the same circumstances were to happen again, I am sure I should
     be deceived again. Caroline did not return my visit till yesterday;
     and not a note, not a line, did I receive in the meantime. When she
     did come, it was very evident that she had no pleasure in it; she
     made a slight, formal apology for not calling before, said not a
     word of wishing to see me again, and was, in every respect, so
     altered a creature, that when she went away I was perfectly
     resolved to continue the acquaintance no longer. I pity, though I
     cannot help blaming, her. She was very wrong in singling me out as
     she did; I can safely say, that every advance to intimacy began on
     her side. But I pity her, because she must feel that she has been
     acting wrong, and because I am very sure that anxiety for her
     brother is the cause of it. I need not explain myself farther; and
     though _we_ know this anxiety to be quite needless, yet if she
     feels it, it will easily account for her behaviour to me; and so
     deservedly dear as he is to his sister, whatever anxiety she may
     feel on his behalf is natural and amiable. I cannot but wonder,
     however, at her having any such fears now, because if he had at all
     cared about me, we must have met long, long ago. He knows of my
     being in town, I am certain, from something she said herself; and
     yet it would seem, by her manner of talking, as if she wanted to
     persuade herself that he is really partial to Miss Darcy. I cannot
     understand it. If I were not afraid of judging harshly, I should be
     almost tempted to say, that there is a strong appearance of
     duplicity in all this. I will endeavour to banish every painful
     thought, and think only of what will make me happy, your affection,
     and the invariable kindness of my dear uncle and aunt. Let me hear
     from you very soon. Miss Bingley said something of his never
     returning to Netherfield again, of giving up the house, but not
     with any certainty. We had better not mention it. I am extremely
     glad that you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at
     Hunsford. Pray go to see them, with Sir William and Maria. I am
     sure you will be very comfortable there.