Title: Pride and Prejudice — Part 180

“E. GARDINER.”

Mr. Bennet and his daughters saw all the advantages of Wickham’s
removal from the ----shire, as clearly as Mr. Gardiner could do. But
Mrs. Bennet was not so well pleased with it. Lydia’s being settled in
the north, just when she had expected most pleasure and pride in her
company, for she had by no means given up her plan of their residing in
Hertfordshire, was a severe disappointment; and, besides, it was such a
pity that Lydia should be taken from a regiment where she was acquainted
with everybody, and had so many favourites.

“She is so fond of Mrs. Forster,” said she, “it will be quite shocking
to send her away! And there are several of the young men, too, that she
likes very much. The officers may not be so pleasant in General----’s
regiment.”

His daughter’s request, for such it might be considered, of being
admitted into her family again, before she set off for the north,
received at first an absolute negative. But Jane and Elizabeth, who
agreed in wishing, for the sake of their sister’s feelings and
consequence, that she should be noticed on her marriage by her parents,
urged him so earnestly, yet so rationally and so mildly, to receive her
and her husband at Longbourn, as soon as they were married, that he was
prevailed on to think as they thought, and act as they wished. And their
mother had the satisfaction of knowing, that she should be able to show
her married daughter in the neighbourhood, before she was banished to
the north. When Mr. Bennet wrote again to his brother, therefore, he
sent his permission for them to come; and it was settled, that, as soon
as the ceremony was over, they should proceed to Longbourn. Elizabeth
was surprised, however, that Wickham should consent to such a scheme;
and, had she consulted only her own inclination, any meeting with him
would have been the last object of her wishes.

[Illustration:

“With an affectionate smile”

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

CHAPTER LI.

[Illustration]

Their sister’s wedding-day arrived; and Jane and Elizabeth felt for her
probably more than she felt for herself. The carriage was sent to meet
them at----, and they were to return in it by dinnertime. Their arrival
was dreaded by the elder Miss Bennets--and Jane more especially, who
gave Lydia the feelings which would have attended herself, had _she_
been the culprit, and was wretched in the thought of what her sister
must endure.

They came. The family were assembled in the breakfast-room to receive
them. Smiles decked the face of Mrs. Bennet, as the carriage drove up to
the door; her husband looked impenetrably grave; her daughters, alarmed,
anxious, uneasy.

Lydia’s voice was heard in the vestibule; the door was thrown open, and
she ran into the room. Her mother stepped forwards, embraced her, and
welcomed her with rapture; gave her hand with an affectionate smile to
Wickham, who followed his lady; and wished them both joy, with an
alacrity which showed no doubt of their happiness.