Title: Pride and Prejudice — Part 104

His arrival was soon known at the Parsonage; for Mr. Collins was walking
the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into Hunsford Lane,
in order to have

[Illustration:

“The gentlemen accompanied him.”

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

the earliest assurance of it; and, after making his bow as the carriage
turned into the park, hurried home with the great intelligence. On the
following morning he hastened to Rosings to pay his respects. There were
two nephews of Lady Catherine to require them, for Mr. Darcy had brought
with him a Colonel Fitzwilliam, the younger son of his uncle, Lord ----;
and, to the great surprise of all the party, when Mr. Collins returned,
the gentlemen accompanied him. Charlotte had seen them from her
husband’s room, crossing the road, and immediately running into the
other, told the girls what an honour they might expect, adding,--

“I may thank you, Eliza, for this piece of civility. Mr. Darcy would
never have come so soon to wait upon me.”

Elizabeth had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment
before their approach was announced by the door-bell, and shortly
afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room. Colonel Fitzwilliam,
who led the way, was about thirty, not handsome, but in person and
address most truly the gentleman. Mr. Darcy looked just as he had been
used to look in Hertfordshire, paid his compliments, with his usual
reserve, to Mrs. Collins; and whatever might be his feelings towards her
friend, met her with every appearance of composure. Elizabeth merely
courtesied to him, without saying a word.

Colonel Fitzwilliam entered into conversation directly, with the
readiness and ease of a well-bred man, and talked very pleasantly; but
his cousin, after having addressed a slight observation on the house and
garden to Mrs. Collins, sat for some time without speaking to anybody.
At length, however, his civility was so far awakened as to inquire of
Elizabeth after the health of her family. She answered him in the usual
way; and, after a moment’s pause, added,--

“My eldest sister has been in town these three months. Have you never
happened to see her there?”

She was perfectly sensible that he never had: but she wished to see
whether he would betray any consciousness of what had passed between the
Bingleys and Jane; and she thought he looked a little confused as he
answered that he had never been so fortunate as to meet Miss Bennet. The
subject was pursued no further, and the gentlemen soon afterwards went
away.

[Illustration:

“At Church”
]

CHAPTER XXXI.

[Illustration]

Colonel Fitzwilliam’s manners were very much admired at the Parsonage,
and the ladies all felt that he must add considerably to the pleasure of
their engagements at Rosings. It was some days, however, before they
received any invitation thither, for while there were visitors in the
house they could not be necessary; and it was not till Easter-day,
almost a week after the gentlemen’s arrival, that they were honoured by
such an attention, and then they were merely asked on leaving church to
come there in the evening. For the last week they had seen very little
of either Lady Catherine or her daughter. Colonel Fitzwilliam had called
at the Parsonage more than once during the time, but Mr. Darcy they had
only seen at church.