Title: The Yellow Wallpaper — Part 7

It is so hard to talk with John about my case, because he is so wise,
and because he loves me so.

But I tried it last night.

It was moonlight. The moon shines in all around, just as the sun does.

I hate to see it sometimes, it creeps so slowly, and always comes in by
one window or another.

John was asleep and I hated to waken him, so I kept still and watched
the moonlight on that undulating wallpaper till I felt creepy.

The faint figure behind seemed to shake the pattern, just as if she
wanted to get out.

I got up softly and went to feel and see if the paper did move, and
when I came back John was awake.

“What is it, little girl?” he said. “Don’t go walking about like
that—you’ll get cold.”

I thought it was a good time to talk, so I told him that I really was
not gaining here, and that I wished he would take me away.

“Why darling!” said he, “our lease will be up in three weeks, and I
can’t see how to leave before.

“The repairs are not done at home, and I cannot possibly leave town
just now. Of course if you were in any danger I could and would, but
you really are better, dear, whether you can see it or not. I am a
doctor, dear, and I know. You are gaining flesh and color, your
appetite is better. I feel really much easier about you.”

“I don’t weigh a bit more,” said I, “nor as much; and my appetite may
be better in the evening, when you are here, but it is worse in the
morning when you are away.”

“Bless her little heart!” said he with a big hug; “she shall be as sick
as she pleases! But now let’s improve the shining hours by going to
sleep, and talk about it in the morning!”

“And you won’t go away?” I asked gloomily.

“Why, how can I, dear? It is only three weeks more and then we will
take a nice little trip of a few days while Jennie is getting the house
ready. Really, dear, you are better!”

“Better in body perhaps”—I began, and stopped short, for he sat up
straight and looked at me with such a stern, reproachful look that I
could not say another word.

“My darling,” said he, “I beg of you, for my sake and for our child’s
sake, as well as for your own, that you will never for one instant let
that idea enter your mind! There is nothing so dangerous, so
fascinating, to a temperament like yours. It is a false and foolish
fancy. Can you not trust me as a physician when I tell you so?”

So of course I said no more on that score, and we went to sleep before
long. He thought I was asleep first, but I wasn’t,—I lay there for
hours trying to decide whether that front pattern and the back pattern
really did move together or separately.