Title: The Yellow Wallpaper — Part 9

Did not that sound innocent? But I know she was studying that pattern,
and I am determined that nobody shall find it out but myself!

Life is very much more exciting now than it used to be. You see I have
something more to expect, to look forward to, to watch. I really do eat
better, and am more quiet than I was.

John is so pleased to see me improve! He laughed a little the other
day, and said I seemed to be flourishing in spite of my wallpaper.

I turned it off with a laugh. I had no intention of telling him it was
because of the wallpaper—he would make fun of me. He might even want to
take me away.

I don’t want to leave now until I have found it out. There is a week
more, and I think that will be enough.

I’m feeling ever so much better! I don’t sleep much at night, for it is
so interesting to watch developments; but I sleep a good deal in the
daytime.

In the daytime it is tiresome and perplexing.

There are always new shoots on the fungus, and new shades of yellow all
over it. I cannot keep count of them, though I have tried
conscientiously.

It is the strangest yellow, that wallpaper! It makes me think of all
the yellow things I ever saw—not beautiful ones like buttercups, but
old foul, bad yellow things.

But there is something else about that paper—the smell! I noticed it
the moment we came into the room, but with so much air and sun it was
not bad. Now we have had a week of fog and rain, and whether the
windows are open or not, the smell is here.

It creeps all over the house.

I find it hovering in the dining-room, skulking in the parlor, hiding
in the hall, lying in wait for me on the stairs.

It gets into my hair.

Even when I go to ride, if I turn my head suddenly and surprise
it—there is that smell!

Such a peculiar odor, too! I have spent hours in trying to analyze it,
to find what it smelled like.

It is not bad—at first, and very gentle, but quite the subtlest, most
enduring odor I ever met.

In this damp weather it is awful. I wake up in the night and find it
hanging over me.

It used to disturb me at first. I thought seriously of burning the
house—to reach the smell.

But now I am used to it. The only thing I can think of that it is like
is the color of the paper! A yellow smell.

There is a very funny mark on this wall, low down, near the mopboard. A
streak that runs round the room. It goes behind every piece of
furniture, except the bed, a long, straight, even smooch, as if it had
been rubbed over and over.

I wonder how it was done and who did it, and what they did it for.
Round and round and round—round and round and round—it makes me dizzy!